Rains of Ledus Banum
Overview
The universe (or rather multiverse) of Season 7 is largely similar to our own with some chief differences. First of all, it is a completely fictional one. Earth as we know does not exist, and the season itself largely operates around a single political entity - the Infinite Empire. The Empire is a multiversal entity, spanning multiple planes of existence, each different from each other in very small ways. Millions of worlds, trillions of individuals, thousands of years of history, hundreds of wars. It’s not a centralized entity, as nothing of such a scale can be, but rather a confederation of noble houses, corporations, divergent churches, charterworlds, and freeplanes who pay service to the One Emperor back in Core.
The universe itself is split along “planes”, which could also be related as the multiverse being split into its own universes. In any case there are thousands of them, often visualized as layers of a cake stacked on top of each other, each only just slightly different than the one above or below, but very much different than its equivalent on a plane 200 layers away. Travel between planets and planes both is done by thmage same tool - Resonant Drilling[1]. Some planets connect to their equivalents on different planes, and many connect to other planets on the same one. RD is a closely guarded enterprise, available only for the rich or imperial.
The universe outside of the Empire is irrelevant, empty, cold. There are no aliens, the most you’ll see are variants of humans that may prove useful to the empire, or animals and plants we would call alien and unusual but which are perfectly edible by the average person. Humanity existed on its own on many different of these planets, not just one Earth-equivalent. All that we know of have been conquered by the Empire and are now ruled over by it. There is no escape from the Empire.
The Empire itself is vibrant, fluid, always changing in the least important of ways that eventually snowball into the biggest of landslides. Interplanetary and interplanar travel allows for mixes of cultures and materials to such an extent that each location visited is its own world, its own wonder. Its own budding rebellion.
Inspirations:
* Corrino Empire from Dune - Feudal Houses and Corporations, chief inspiration for the season.
* The Combine from Half Life 2 - Multiversality, totality of control, exploitation.
* Imperium of Man from Warhammer 40k - General vibe and principles of esoteric human relationship with the government.
* Third Empire from Traveller TTRPG - Confederation principle of governance of the Empire.
* New Capenna from Magic: the Gathering - Style of high society.
Empire - The Lyre, The Lance, and the Purse
Fifteen thousand years. That is how long, by the best estimates of ancient and modern scholars, the Infinite Empire has lasted. The history of imperial humanity before it is by now merely a footnote, a grain of sand on the beach of imperial memory, but so much of what the Empire is has been shaped by what it was and wasn’t. It is now the 18th year of the Reign of the Emperor in the 20th Stanza of the Multiverse and so much has stayed the same, that you could almost not notice the things that changed.
Core
The Imperial Core is made up of two parts: The Imperial Plane, which is roughly all of the worlds of the original imperial universe, and the Imperial Spire, which are all the versions of the Capital Planet connected together by a constant string of Resonant Drills like a stake through a cake.
  

Our home, bathed in the rays of gold.
The Core is far away from all that matters, and it is the only place that matters. Indeed games in the core are played that never reach outside of it. Those who live in the Core do not generally leave it - there is variety enough within that vacationing and even exile is tenable without having to resort to leaving the golden realm.
In gameplay the Core is far, far away. Far enough that it's largely irrelevant in the gameplay itself. Visitors from that land should be far and few between. Players should never be able to go to the Core and come back, nor should they ever be from the Core and arriving on Ledus Banum.
Frontier
The Frontier are the far parts of the Empire. Lands conquered within the last centuries. Planes prone to rebellion and far away from the Core. Districts of import due to their material value to the Empire, not population, religion, or history. The designation of Frontier doesn’t necessitate the locale being on the literal fringes of the Empire, but rather a factual designation relating to their nature and status.
  

There are places where the Empire came once and never again.
Ledus Banum 77[2], which is the planet that interests us, is located in the Frontier plane of Eberras, it being first considered full imperial territory only barely 500 years ago. It’s a new conquest and during the early days of the Empire it would warrant little attention. The difference now are plentiful amounts of the resource Ordinium on the planet (common across all Ledus Banums, refined into both fuel and material for RD instruments) the lack of new conquests coming to the Empire, as the last discovered world before LB-77 was itself conquered 115 years after the one before it. Growth of the Empire has stalled for some time now, but it is little to be worried about.
Examples:
* Plane: Drummond Fars - A plane native to Ingriots[3], known for its remnants of ancient civilisations predating the empire, varied libertarian colonies, and rebellious attitude.
* Plane: Jumn - A freeplane with only 7 worlds, the least in the Empire by a wide margin. Its only point of relevance is the close proximity to the Hybreian Highway, offering respite to travelers and fugitives.
* Constellation[4]: The Glimmer Worlds - A grouping of worlds across multiple planes maintaining a rebellion against the empire for the last 400 years. The Empire is in a constant state of war with the constellation, even as the conflict has degenerated into skirmishes, raids, and mercenary marauders hired by both sides.
* World: Kessia’s Eye 777 - By some claimed to be the most beautiful place in the Empire outside of the Core. Filled with forests, foggy mountains, and valleys it’s inhabited by only 20,000 locals who work on their farms. Rarely visited due to the perilous and long journey required to do so.
* World: Calimnus 83 - Empire’s research world into biological improvements and modifications, largely uninhabited. During the Imperial Winter research from the world was used against the Imperial authority. It was subsequently invaded and razed.
* World: Dramnos 1141 - Populous charterworld with relatively unique geography. In the year of Chariots of the Reign of the Emperor in the 10th Stanza of the Multiverse it was witness to a Temple miracle. 17 people previously thought dead were resurrected after a young girl sang to them in the morgue. It now serves as a place of pilgrimage.
Inbetween
The Inbetween is everything else that is not the Frontier or the Core, which is the bulk majority of the Empire. People, taxpayers and laborers all, who refine the Ordinium of the frontier into fuel and whose wealth is siphoned to the imperial palaces. Here are located most of the headquarters of the imperial legions, here rebellions with lofty goals are formed, here lives 90% of the empire.
  

Commonality does not mean dreariness.
There is no one conforming style of person, dress, or building in the Inbetween. Even more so than the Frontier, here life is varied due to the number of souls and space covered. The Inbetween should never look too advanced, certainly not “cyber” in any way, but there are no other limiters on the way it's presented.
The Inbetween should show up often enough in the season. While most of the contact with outside worlds will be that with the plane it lays on, as LB-77 does not have a resonant connection to other LB’s (to the best of imperial knowledge), those living in the Inbetween rely on the trade with the Frontier more so than the Core. Technologies, experts, even tourists may simply make themselves seen on Tundra.
Examples:
* Plane: Ferignum - One of the oldest planes conquered by the Empire, includes several worlds dedicated solely to hosting offices of imperial institutions. Ferignum sits on the Hybreian Highway, a route of low-stress Resonant Drills connecting multiple planes to the Core.
* Constellation: Ambrose Confederation - An autonomous, dubiously legal confederation of charterworlds on the plane of Axing Dhou. Noted for paying the imperial tribute together, rather than individually and possessing its own democratically elected senate.
* World: Velis Vel 210 - Garrison and industrial world. Houses the Legion Exter, one of the Empire’s Expeditionary Legions. During the Imperial Winter it rebelled against the central authority in support of reforms and lessening the tax burden, and was subsequently razed. 
* World: Raccah 128 - A major junction of the Hybreian Highway and the spireward route. Once a major trade hub and industrial center, now that both routes have largely declined, Raccah has descended into banditry and constant emigration of the inhabitants.
* World: Evrapura 78 - Large world located close to the Core. Largely agricultural, used often by imperial couriers and spies as a meeting place. In the year of Thunderstorms of the Reign of the Emperor in the 17th Stanza of the Multiverse a shootout between envoys of several noble houses occurred here, an event which eventually led to the downfall of a number of high families and a shift in imperial politics.
Technology
Technology in the Empire is varied. The polity is ancient, but the rules of the universe (as in our arbitrary rules for the setting) make it so that technology is a bit iffy. The Empire never had access to all the resources we had in our timeline. Less copper, no lithium, too much gold, whatever is needed to arrive at the following  - the technological state of the Empire is “As needed” with the default assumption of Victorian to the Edwardian eras (1840-1910) for most things. “As needed” is quite simple - if we want the Empire to be more advanced in some areas like travel (planes?) or information processing (computers?) we first determine if such a thing is “needed” either a) for the Empire to make sense, b) for the season to be fun, c) is really really really cool or neat. If the answer is yes to one of those questions, and doesn’t conflict with the negative classification just a bit later in this paragraph, then that technology exists in the Empire somehow. On the other hand if we want something that exists at that time to not be in the Empire’s technological purview then we must ask two questions: 1) Does it existing make the Empire’s existence nonsensical, and 2) Does it existing hurt gameplay? and if both questions are answered with yes, the technology does not exist for some reason. The explanation for why it does or doesn’t exist is not ultimately worthy of too much deliberation - it is a universe of infinite possibilities and with its own laws of physics.
  

Silly lil’ robots carrying swords? I mean come on.
Like it was stated, the “frozen” technological level of the Empire is something around our years of 1840-1910 with several important exceptions. For one, much of it is for the sake of aesthetic and relativity. As Season 7 deals with the concepts of colonialism immediately from the get go, I thought it prudent it reflects a period of time within the era of general european colonization of the world (1500-1900). This specific period of technology was chosen for two main reasons:
1. Previous experience with Season 6 which played with this time period but tried to simulate it more earnestly allows a degree of familiarity already on how thing worked, technology and so on. Making the dev process hopefully easier.
2. While I personally love the early-modern style of cloth and build and the Spanish colonial empire has a certain “mythicness” to it, it would be hard to build and show the Empire as existing in roughly that time period. We would have to forsake plenty of technological innovations that happened after that time, and more so we would have to somehow relate how the Empire managed to conquer a slew of worlds while staying around that era generally.
All of the above is not final (unlike I hope most other stuff in this document), but are my arguments as to why we should stick with the general Victorian-Edwardian era for the default level of assumed technology. Importantly it should not determine the fashion or architecture we want to portray, but it should be a guide in terms of the practical technology we afford to the players.
Deviations from the technological norm do exist, however. Chief are the three main backbones of imperial conquests: Resonant Drilling, Delta Shields, and Post-Sight. Resonant drilling has been explained in a footnote from a previous paragraph. Delta Shields and Post-Sight are the following:
Delta Shields - Dune had it right with the shields and we are ripping mister Herbert off heavily. Delta shields are supremely simple in concept - the faster an object travels the more it slows down while approaching a delta shield, eventually losing all momentum. Smaller objects are affected more up to a certain point - particles and things like dust are too small to be properly stopped by delta shields, as is radiation. Similarly to Resonant Drilling, Delta Shields work thanks to the principle of tonal architecture - manipulation of space-time by way of music. Ways to overcome these perfected means of defense are plentiful however: drop a mountain on someone (its too big), radiation ray (its too small), emp (deltas eat energy quick and exponentially, also why they are rare for anything bigger than a person), or most interestingly - Delta Projectiles. These projectiles use the same technology as the shields and can detect when they approach a delta field. For some reason, not entirely understood, the two fields cancel each other out and the projectile can pass. Issue is these weapons need to be quite bulky as they need a delta instrument to generate the field.
Post-Sight - Dissidents and rebels are the Empire's oldest thorn in the side, to such an extent that utilizing the technology of a once conquered world (now a resort plane), the Grand Chamber of Technology has invented Post-Sight, the ability to witness moments in the past. Carving runes of burning sound into the flesh of individuals results in these Retro-Visual Agents to be able to take a look at locations, items, and even individuals as to their past. Locations reveal who was there and what they did in the past. Items reveal their previous condition. People are seen as if going in reverse, their actions rewinding to their birth (even as they still stay in place). For each of the "Posties", however, such an act is a sacrifice eventually leading to their ruin. The bigger the investigated thing is, and the farther to look back on, the more the runes burn, and eventually each seer is left with a glass skeleton and translucent flesh, utterly unable to do anything.
Besides those, our military technology varies slightly from that practiced at the time (pending finalization of the combat design process), and I believe several other things should as well. For one - planes. We must concept that the Empire has existed in this technological state for several millennia now, as such while we would not experience the invention of expressly new things, or even the improvement of existing things to such a state they would be unrecognizable from their form in the victorian-edwardian era, we must accept that many other things would be improved upon and “perfected” to the level possible. I cannot express this to perfection without proper images, but in cases of imperial technology we can’t allow “wonkiness” of sorts to be the best possibility. The best plane of the Empire cannot be a slow, low flying bi-plane made out of wood for example. Yet it cannot be a world-war two era fighter either.
Magitek
Magitek is the practice of using Ordinium refined into fuel to power devices and weaponry which effects seem to break the laws of physics, thus the reference to it being considered magic by most people.
Contracts - Emperor’s Signets
Biomancy
Biomancy is the specialized technological field related to enhancing humans through implants, genetic modification, and other ways.
Tonal Architecture
Tonal Architecture is the field of using extremely fine-tuned musical instruments and precise notes and vibrations to create effects bending space and time.
Military
Armies
Once upon a time one could speak of such a thing as an imperial military. Nowadays, the empire relies on a variety of forces to protect its old conquests rather than to achieve new ones.
The most common armed person a subject of the Empire will see is a member of the local garrison/planetary guard/local defense force. These units are funded, organized, and maintained by the local government or its direct benefactors. As such they can range from an actual local militia conscripted from the locals to protect their homes in case of a sudden insurgency, to a multi-planetary sector garrison of a noble house governing this and neighboring worlds. Thus they vary greatly both by reputation and quality, but are rarely the most capable fighting force present in a given region.
Due to the institutional decentralization and atomisation of imperial authority throughout the ages, many wealthy but lacking in terms of land organizations rely on various mercenary companies to serve as security and enforcement. This is especially common among corporate entities of all kinds. As imperial law forbids chartered corporations from employing its own soldiers, there has emerged a veritable market of private contractors, security consultants, self-defense tutors, and debt enforcement agencies available to companies basically everywhere outside of the Core. In times of conflict even noble houses possessing their own retinues, planetary governments, and other organizations already having their own forces often supplement them by the hiring of mercenaries.
Among the most prominent imperial professional armies are the “retinues” of noble houses, and security forces of the bigger imperial institutions. The law allowing the nobility to organize retinues is one of the oldest existing within imperial space, old enough that its language has been interpreted and re-interpreted a thousand times over, basically granting any recognised noble house a carte blanche to organize an actual professional army.  On the other hand there are the security forces of the departments, committees, bureaus, chambers, and agencies of the empire. A staggering amount has been reduced to de facto governments of individual worlds or constellations as their original purpose has been supplanted by civil strife, war, legal reform, or just plain bureaucratic entropy. In any case many of them employ armed forces on par with noble retinues, loyal just as those are to the institution itself in truth, and to the Emperor in name.
Where imperial authority is lacking or instability reigns one can also see the most basic forces of conscripts employed for warfare. Often utilized by nobility and warlords, these levies are mostly a facet of newly conquered frontier worlds and realms in the state of local warfare.
On the other end of the quality spectrum, there exist the Imperial Legions, also known as Expeditionary Legions or Conquering Legions. Representing the most developed and sophisticated part of imperial warfare these are forces established at the dawn of the Empire, who answer directly to the Emperor alone. Their main task and point of honor is the expansion of the Empire through the subjugation of newly discovered worlds and their pacification in the first few months after the conquest. The Legions are jealous hoarders of the best of imperial arms, often the possession of which is limited to their troops by law. Similarly, the recruitment to the Legions is strict and demanding, to join one means giving up one’s life to the Emperor with no chance of backing out. While the original 500 legions were plenty during the first centuries of the Empire, their number nor that of the legionaries within them has not changed once. That, combined with the fact that the discovery of new worlds has stalled for several centuries now, has led the Legions to stagnate and isolate themselves from the Empire at large. The last major excursion of the Legions occurred during the Imperial Winter, when several received orders from the Core, something that hasn’t happened for millenia. What took place then was a supremely swift termination of the rebelling forces, destruction of thousands of worlds, and utter pacification.
Methods
To be expanded on during dev and later lore docs.
Religion
History
There is no Empire without the Emperor, there is no Emperor without History, there is no History without Belief. That is the reigning creed of the Universal Temple of the Church of the Golden-Starred River, known colloquially as the Universal Temple - the common faith of the Empire.
The Temple is perhaps one of the healthiest institutions in the Empire, lacking in political strife typical of the courts of the Core and conflicts typical to the worlds of the Frontier, it's often seen as a calmness in times of need and war in the material world. That hasn't always been the case, however. Now long gone, but the days of the inquisition, heresies, religious wars, and apocalyptic prophets are sourly remembered by the Temple’s historians. The history of the faith is that of conflict and competition of priests, dioceses, and lecterns, but also that of fire, swords, and mass killings. In hindsight it should have been expected - once the Empire spread out across the multitude of worlds, all the heretical priests once oppressed on just one have suddenly left for a legion of other planets to burrow the roots of their ideas into. Not long after the first wave of conquests, the Temple had degenerated into a shambling organism of warring factions and divergent thoughts. What was borne out of that, after eons of war, death, and debates was something similar yet different to the faith in the original. Nowadays hardly anyone bothers with the theologies of old, and no one knows what the first iteration of the River was.
The Temple now is largely shaped by the Singwan Compact, a document largely providing for the domination by the mainstream though at the time of the signing - Allocationism. Due to the relative peace governing the Temple, and the largely liberal nature of the compact, the church is in fact far more decentralized and theologically divided than it appears on the outside. Divergences (legally distinct from Heresies) are common throughout the priesthood, albeit friction along the lines of doctrine is rare and regulated to debates and official complaints. The Compact has largely succeeded in maintaining a central line of theological belief that all Divergences must comply with, most other topics being given to interpretation.
Beliefs
The scripture of Allocationism has largely dominated the Temple ever since the signing of the Singwan Compact over a century ago. Being named for the belief that the duty of the church is to draw from the love of the Emperor for their subjects and adequately distribute it among them, it is a largely pacifist and benign stream focused on the relationship of the Temple with the population at large. Allocationism has taken up the position of Eternalism, which has dominated Temple politics before. That sect has held the supremacy of the imperial soul above that of the human mind, claiming that while the minds of individuals may be unique, their souls all stem from the same spark.
The chief pillars of Allocationism, which are also the backbone of the Compact, are:
1. Unconditionality of the Emperor’s Love towards humanity.
2. Limitless human capacity to receive virtue.
Allocationism is a proselytizing movement, aggressive not with its rhetoric and actions, but rather its salvationist tendencies and vision to see more people accepted under their system. Allocationism doesn’t differentiate between faithful and unbelievers, but rather those who act according to imperial virtues and those who do not.
Imperial virtues, as defined by Allocationism and required by the Compact are:
1. Glorification of the Emperor as Human suzerain.
2. Acceptance of the Emperor’s Love.
3. Fair treatment of fellow men.
4. Obedience to Imperial Law.
5. Forgiveness towards repentant sinners.
The above two pillars and five virtues are the basis of the Singwan Compact, the following of which determines the difference between heresies and divergences.
Allocationism itself, in addition to the above, hold other virtues which have not been included in the Compact:
1. Civility in life and faith.
2. Respect to the spiritual hierarchy of the Universal Temple of the Church of the Golden-Starred River, and recognition of the guideship of its priesthood.
Long Allocationist dominance has imprinted on the faith as a whole, certain doctrines and practices have evolved out of old beliefs under the Allocationist purview and have taken root in Imperial life overall. Chief among them are the propensity of the faithful towards charities and almswork. Almshouses of the Temple (often of Allocationist, or Allocationist divergent nature) are one of the few things aiding the poor of the Empire on the multiversal scale. Reincarnation is largely persecuted as doctrine, due to its use by Eternalists of old, but a variation of it, the idea of Prognostic Love has been generally accepted by Allocationists. Prognostic Love is the practice of “tracking” the Emperor’s Love bestowed on individuals down their family tree. Such love, the principle claims, is stored within the descendants of the individual until it recognises an appropriate heir to take on and build on that love. At such a moment the love enters the newborn child and influences it throughout its life, likely bringing on features of the ancestor it once rested in.
Allocationism is also stated to number among “statist” doctrines by self-proclaimed liberationist diversionists. Statism is expressed through explicit support and obedience towards imperial laws and decrees, which the liberationists decry as allowing the middleman of imperial legislative into the realm of religion. To these freedom minded individuals obedience towards imperial law means following the decrees directly proclaimed by the Emperor, without any influence by non-divine forces.
Allocationism is largely an anti-populist movement, set to follow the state line, obedience to the priesthood, and a deeper feeling of mistrust towards the capability of the masses to govern or guide themselves towards salvation. Many would accuse their domination being dependent not on any sort of merit to their values, but rather the perception by the Imperial Court that Allocationism is the sect most conductive to imperial stability and status quo.
With all this in mind the Temple holds one truth to such a position, that no sect finds it necessary to clarify or even state it except in their most basic teachings. That is, that the position and person of the Emperor is sacred and possibly divine in nature. The first virtue of Allocationism refers to that concept although it doesn’t express it overtly by the omission of language referring to the Emperor as a divine being. To Allocationists, however, such language is plenty to indicate divinity, indeed it suffices for most branches of the faith. The act of universal love and ability to govern uncountable masses has long been perceived  as “divine qualifiers” for the Emperor, born most likely out of the earliest conquests and formation of cults around the early imperial cults of personality.
The entire Temple considers the Empire a community of the faithful, and history akin to a river pushing it ahead with the Emperor at the helm. In this triad internally these concepts are divergent, but outside the church considers the Emperor, the Empire, and History the same things, coequal in importance, guiding humanity throughout the eons as needed.
Lastly, the Temple has long given up the practice of prophecies, even before the time of the Eternalists. Still, legal prophets appear occasionally and old predictions are remembered and taught by both Allocationists and Divergences. The most famous and universally accepted one is the eschatological prophecy of the Dark Messiah, the “Face from the Cold Void”. The Dark Messiah is an old tale, pertaining to the end times of the Empire. Their person is to be a rival to the Emperor, not a usurper or claimant, but a rival conqueror to be born from within the Empire and who through lies, hate, and malice shatters the Empire for a thousand thousand years, wherein the Empire shall end forever and complete darkness reigns. The Dark Messiah prophecy is considered a non-deterministic tale, that is one which is not set in stone to happen. As such, various parts of the Temple often disagree on what can bring the Dark Messiah about. Allocationists believe that with enough war due to people forsaking the Emperor’s Love, the Dark Messiah (who is alive already) shall reveal themselves and take up the mantle of a charismatic leader trying to upend Imperial rule, they consider it the final test humanity shall receive.
Divergences
Divergences are nothing more but monikers given by the Allocationist consensus to branches of the Temple following the basics of the Singwan Compact, but disagreeing with the rest of the Allocationist creed, thus placing them somewhere between the mainstream and heresy. Divergences make up about 55% of all population in the Empire, while Allocationism is followed by a quarter, and the rest is presumed to be heresies and other faiths.
Divergences are often differentiated based on two things - their distance from non-Compact Allocationist beliefs, and their unique doctrines. The most popular Divergences in the Empire are:
1. Veritabilism - While Allocationists see the Emperor’s Love as universal and without any underlying aspects, the Veritabilists, or Truthers, consider the Emperor’s Love to be an expression of the truth of the multiverse. In the expression “Love is Truth, Truth is Love” Veritabilists do not talk about the romantic emotion, but rather the acceptance of the state of the Empire as a whole. Expanding on the concept, the Emperor’s Love is a message of educating the people about the multiverse, which they understand to be just a part of the entire equation.
Other Factors:
   1. Statist;
   2. Allocationist-adjacent;
   3. Populist-neutral;
   4. Emperor’s divinity is inherent and the Emperor’s Love depends on it;
   5. Anti-Reincarnation - Reject Prognostic Love;
   6. Prophecies are the expressions of Truth, the Dark Messiah is the lack of Truth and more an abstract concept than an actual person.
   2. Harpism - Representing the biggest liberationist movement in the Empire, the Harpists see the multiverse as a grand orchestra under the conductorship of the Emperor. To the Harpists the idea of unconditional love is like that of listening to music - it is a conscious choice to stop listening as the default state of anyone is to simply hear the music around you. Thus, Harpists believe that to express true faith it’s not enough to just accept the Emperor’s Love, but rather to spread it intently and live by it to the greatest extent.
Other Factors:
      1. Libertationist - Harpism rejects the inclusion of man’s law into the orchestra of divinity, establishing it as a completely different sphere;
      2. Anti-Allocationist - Harpists do not believe in the need of a guiding priesthood to lead people to the Emperor’s Love, as they see it as an act anyone does passively. The priests exist merely to serve ceremony, and to be an example to the faithful;
      3. Populist;
      4. Pro-Prognosticism;
      5. Emperor’s divinity is evident by the continuous existence of the Empire;
      6. Prophecies are the Emperor’s sheet music. Predictions such as the Dark Messiah are not real prophecies, but divergent music which should not be allowed to be played in the orchestra.
      3. Neo-Constellationism - Also known as Villism, after its founder Artuo Vill, the Villists stand by the “timelessness” interpretation of the Imperial Triad. By that interpretation, the three parts of the triad are, were, and always will be the same thing and the first conquests of the Empire were merely the material manifestation of that concept. Old Constellationism was characterized by its strong populist tendencies but also pro-priesthood perspective, seeing the faith as multiple constellations of individuals spread throughout the sky of the Empire and linked only by the wisdom of their spiritual guides. While Villists took those beliefs from the now dead branch, they supplemented it by their own and now stand as the sect closest to apocalypticism from them all.
Other Factors:
         1. Transitionist - Villists reject the statist-libertationist distinction, seeing both as sides of the same coin. To them the most important part of the River is to flow forwards, and to transition into a more clerical state, ready for any disaster;
         2. Anti-Allocationist - The anti-Allocationism of the Villists is expressed through their rejection of pacifistic tendencies, and support of cells of individual faithful within the larger community, rather than seeing individuals as part of just the whole church;
         3. Populist;
         4. Anti-Reincarnation;
         5. Emperor’s divinity is inherent and timeless;
         6. Prophecies exist on the River just like anything else, and are thus inevitable, even the Dark Messiah who awaits humanity at the mouth of the River. The Emperor is ready, as they are also the River, but humanity must be prepared for the end times at all times.
         4. Eremism - Eremists are often considered proto-Allocationists, as the latter is sometimes considered an evolution of the former. Eremisms follow the same principles as Allocationism with a few core differences. Eremists consider the role of the priesthood as far more limited and isolated from the statist thought of Allocationism. Prognostic Love originates within Eremism, and was originally meant to identify individuals who should become wandering Eremites, hermit-mentors.
Other Factors:
            1. Libertationist;
            2. Allocationist;
            3. Populist;
            4. Pro-Prognosticism;
            5. Emperor’s divinity is inherent and possible to experience everywhere;
            6. Prophecies are tests by the River towards the Empire. The Emperor guides humanity through them as is necessary.
            5. Kinship of the Flower - The Kinship is unique, almost considered a heresy by some, it remains a significant portion of imperial life. It’s an anti-Allocationist statist sect, which considers the best way to experience the Emperor’s Love not through sermons and charity, but through submission to the Emperor and rejection of personal imperfections. The Kin see the necessity of the individual to continually improve themselves as if they are both the gardener and the flower in the Emperor’s garden. They see Allocationism as a dangerous, failing path.
Other Factors:
               1. Statist;
               2. Anti-Allocationist;
               3. Populist;
               4. Anti-Reincarnation;
               5. Emperor’s divinity is inherent in their perfection;
               6. Prophecies are predictions made by imperfect mortals, who may or may not come to pass. No prophecies are deterministic, and the Dark Messiah is merely the worst possibility for the Empire.
Government
Overview
It is a misnomer to call the Empire a government, or to say that it possesses such a thing as a working government. Despite its claims of greatness, ancient history, military exploits, miraculous technology, and religious dogma, the Empire has never defeated the one enemy it has created for itself - distance. In the simplest of terms, the Empire has simply grown too large, too fat, for its own good. The claim of power over a million worlds has long been just that, an aggressive assertion conjoined with a demand for tribute and to follow the imperial decrees.
So what is the Empire? To its faithful, it is the Emperor in all their[5] glory and distance. No matter what goes wrong, which official is corrupt and which tax is a burden the Emperor remains spotless and a possibility for redress for the wronged party. To the Empire’s critics the Empire is nothing. It’s a lie bound by a rusted chain the loyalists call history. All it needs, according to them, is one single moment of crisis significant enough to blow it apart. To many others the Empire is the tax it levies, either be it that it levies it on them, or that they collect it for the Empire. The connective tissue of the Empire for these people remains the same coin across a multitude of worlds, and the same road that connects them.
In the end the Empire is none of those things. Scarce has the Emperor shown themselves to govern; gargantuan crises come at the Empire almost daily but just like the behemoth it is, it shrugs them off through sheer mass; and not only is a coin on one place different on another often to a surprising degree, but the roads that facilitate its trade often become dysfunctional as war, lack of resources, or even petty politics disrupts them. Rather, the Empire is truly a sum of its parts, the institutions that chug along, the noble houses, corporations, the church, and what skulks inbetween. Governance of the Core differs so significantly from that of the Inbetween and the Frontier, than it would be a waste of time trying to describe it all individually, as while the center of imperial power can be said to be regulated and ruled at least adequately, outside of it it’s the power of local governors and imperial factions which truly decides to whom, and from whom. To these powers the Empire is little more than an excuse, little more than justification to continue and to act like they’ve acted for millenia. So is the Empire an excuse to bicker, to war, to die, as old disputes are revived with the vitriol only a rivalry caused by two children fighting over a toy could possess.
The government of the Empire can be largely divided into two categories: how the local governments handle themselves, and how the imperial institutions do so. In theory there exists an Imperial Senate which promulgates law the Emperor declares, along with a series of committees formed in the olden days to handle various subjects. Often these committees and councils lose imperial favor, or their biggest backers die out, and without being dissolved continue on with a skeleton crew of members and chairs. For about five centuries now the politics of the core have revolved around these committees, their members attacking each other in the senate with words, and sometimes in their palaces with prism-daggers. While the Emperor is silent, a revolving door of these political cliques continues to assume and lose dominant status in the Core and its politics, but outside of the core few know of it.
Imperial Law
What warrants explanation is Imperial Law. Decreti Imperiali are the backbone of the Infinite Order and they come in four main flavors:
               1. Decreti Bocati - “Decrees of the Mouth” given by the Emperor themselves, reserved for most pressing matters.
               2. Decreti Corporati - Decrees promulgated by the Imperial Senate, officially originating from the Emperor, often in truth at best from their chancellery and still subject to Senatorial approval.
               3. Acta Conventa - Acts passed by the Senate on its own.
               4. Decreti Nuvo Gradi - Decrees enacted by committees and council, discussed in the Senate and not voted down.
Presumably there is a legal difference to what each of these decrees can do, what are their limits, and regulations on their implementation, but nary anyone outside of the Core cares for the matter. What matters is the seniority the decrees hold over each other - a Decreti Bocati is more important than Decreti Corporati and so on. Seniority is established on the distance of the Emperor to the decree, those laws with no involvement but that of the Emperor’s are considered pure and sacred, while those lower on the chain are at most associated with the person of the Emperor. Enforcement of these acts often falls under the purview of imperial authorities present locally, and in less reputable words it’s done with a dangerous level of selectivity.
Imperial Law is adjudicated on by Imperial and Chartered Justices. The former are permanently established courts on individual worlds, while the latter are traveling judges chartered to such a job by an imperial academy. The latter are either always the most upright and moral individuals, or the most corrupt and lazy in the Empire. There is hardly anyone in between these two extremes.
Local Governments
To begin with the local governments. Imperial law distinguishes three forms of administrative divisions, all equal to each other: Freeplanes, Charterworlds, and Subject Worlds.
Freeplanes are actual planes (universes) given the privilege of self-governing for as long as basic rules such as loyalty to the Empire, faith in the Emperor, and yearly tribute are paid. In their case not following every Imperial Law is not only somewhat allowed, but the norm.
Charterworlds work similarly to Freeplanes, but exist within places that haven’t been classified as Freeplanes. They are often characterized by a much more democratic system of governance, sometimes even defying imperial nobles and corporations who find it not worth it proceeding with lengthy legal processes to control just one world.
Subject Worlds are what the vast majority of Imperial worlds are. While those located in a Freeplane might call themselves Freeworlds, such a classification does not exist and they simply answer to the Freeplane’s authorities. Subject Worlds are often appointed a governor from the Core, who in their stead sends a secretary (who themselves often are secretaries of many individual worlds and as such send their own deputies) to govern, or rather arbitrate. Real power on subject worlds rests in the hands of the dominant institutions. Often these are noble houses, one of the powerful imperial corporations, the Temple, sometimes it is a regional institution that has established itself. As Subject Worlds do not officially have the capacity to make their own laws, the governor is instead given a largely free hand to enact their own decrees to help govern the planet. With the governor often missing, and the secretary overworked, it allows these powerful institutions to simply draft regulations and submit them to a rubber stamp of the local vice-deputy-secretary (the deputy-secretary is on a 2 year sabbatical). Ledus Banums 77 is a Subject World.
Imperial Institutions
Much has been said already about the institutions of the Empire. Much has been implied. Noble Houses, Corporations, the Temple. Let us now get slightly more in depth. Generally, one can further classify each Institution into either a private one, or an imperial one. Private institutions are Noble Houses and the Corporations, while imperial would be the Temple, the Grand Chambers, and the Kindred. What differentiates them is the legal obligation they hold. While all are bound by oaths of loyalty to the Emperor, only the imperial Institutions are actually regulated by law or statute, and are officially part of the imperial structure as a whole. But even they have long thrown off the shackles of actual fealty, and now work for their own gain rather than within the confines of the imperial system.
The Nobility
Noble Houses are those families who in ancient times (and sometimes relatively modern ones too) have been granted a charter of nobility. These charters are three parts: Allowance to hold, sell, buy, lease, and exploit land without need for imperial oversight; seniority in ceremonies and imperial rituals above non-nobility; right to hold arms and arm own retinues. Along with the charter each house is granted a drop of the Emperor’s blood suspended in translucent silver and a coat of arms. Charters of nobility are irrevocable except by the assent of a Convent of Nobles, a convention of all the noble houses in the Empire and the Emperor.
As the charter grants them great leeway in obtaining land, the Noble Houses are the largest landholders of the Empire. Their ownership formally exists in a separate legal system to that of Imperial Law, but not reaching simple private property either, thus the unique legal system by which most of the houses operate is called the Ius Soli Nobili, which each house adopts with slight modifications. This has come about as before the ISN, the nobility has experienced a very hostile and litigious relationship with the non-aristocratic capital holders within the Empire. Decades of low investments, lack of trust in noble contracts, expensive lawsuits needed to be handled all over the Empire, and just plain old frustration have led to the creation and adoption of the ISN by all Noble Houses, and its subsequent voluntary and yet not at all upholding.
Some charters exist on the level, some nobles would claim, of Decreti Bocati, having been granted directly by the Emperor in the olden days. In the opinion of some legal scholars this places the Houses holding such charters at a level of sovereignty above any laws which themselves are not “From the Mouth” of the Emperor. Predictably enough this often leads to despotism, exploitation, and disregard for imperial institutions to an even greater degree than one that the nobles usually wrap themselves in, but at the same time such brazen actions can last and hold only on frontier worlds or in places where the house in question hold such unquestionable power, or such a love of the inhabitants.
There are many Houses within the Empire, some are old and akin to glaciers. Others are yet younger yet still ancient in the scope of a human lifetime, partaking more in commerce and base politics such that their seniors hold them in contempt. Seniority itself holds major importance in the system of nobility. Simply, the older the charter, the greater the prestige and privilege. While the outwards the Houses survive by their economic and military power, within the blue-blood spattered arena of banquets and soirees what matters is respect, and respect is neither given or earned - to do so would be unbecoming of either side. Rather it occurs, grows, and stays or is lost as a result of a well delivered speech, gracious annexation of barbarous tribes, humiliation of a corporate CEO who thought of himself too highly in front of the august patrons and matrons. 
Of interest to us are some, but especially two houses, in order of seniority, player House names are in bold:
               * House Aleph “Res Vocati Officium” — By no means is the name of house Aleph a coincidence. Although not first, by now many believe it is the oldest surviving noble house of the Empire. Its charter was granted to them by the Emperor directly along with their new world-capital for the founder’s, Johnis Aleph Gertum’s, accomplishments in aiding an imperial conquest. Soon house Aleph grew first to a military hegemon, then to a true power behind the throne through several smart marriages, then to cousins of the Emperor themselves relegated to a ceremonial position, then to failure, then to rich Ordinium refiners, to bankruptcy, to protectors of pilgrims, to a house of prophets, to civil war, to another civil war, and eventually here, to a chapter in a history book.
Still, the Peacocks remain strong and steady unlike many of their cousins which would fall and falter throughout the millennia. Emboldened by its motto “A Thing Called Duty”, it is the duty to that of the greatest of forces - history, to house Aleph. At first it was a duty of glory, later a duty of survival. Nowadays it is a duty of reclamation and redemption, one the finality of which can only be accomplished by once again standing at the top; and Ledus Banum 77 is yet another rung of that tall, tall ladder.
               * House Verdis “Through, Like a Serpentine River” — What roars in the hearts of men is a belief that they can do great things. House Verdis has heard this roar many a time and never have they suffered for it. Except once. 73 years ago, when the Imperial Winter began, house Verdis decided to seize the opportunity and strike against the long-time rivals in house Aleph. Unfortunately for them, the ailing noble family managed to form a coalition against Verdis, and in the midst of Winter fought back the Lions, almost destroying their core domains in the process.
Now Verdis is reeling, Rhodium brought it suffering and embarrassment even greater than their losses in the war, as they have proven to be unable to control their territory - either having to depend on corporate mercenaries, or losing it outright. Verdis is a dying house.
               * House Thangakilai “Aureus Ramus Fert Fructum Aureum” — Who would guess that from the ashes of a thousand years could a flower of greatness bloom again. House Thangakilai did, they always knew. During the Imperial Winter a legate of the expeditionary legion was revealed to in actuality be a forgotten scion of the long-thought dead house Thangakilai. For his exploits and merits during the war, the young Damil Thangakilai was re-granted his house’s charter by the imperial Senate, and granted a lien against lands taken from rebelling nobles and insurgents.
While this has resulted in a resurgence for the Golden Bough House, it has also frustrated those whose own plans were much disrupted by their sudden return, especially house Chaurus. All the while rumors of the legitimacy of Damil’s ancestry swell, as some say he claimed the mantle of a Thangakilai as a political play, and that he is no heir of the house but rather he usurped it as there are no other living members to dispute his claim.
               * House Chaurus “With Spear in Hand” — There is no greater story in the Empire than that of Chaurus the First of Agor. Born a bastard who rose to command the armies of the Emperor in the second wave of conquest, the person whose foot first stepped in another plane, progenitor of a family of thousands. In house Chaurus manses shrines are still lit to the First daily and with great reverence. Yet unlike the house Aleph, the counts and barons of Chaurus are not bound by the history of the accomplishments of the founder, but by their legacy and ambition. House Chaurus is old, just like all houses of the Empire, but it is this younger type of old - the old which does not remember a time when the Empire didn’t stretch over multiple universes, the old which does not recall live audiences with the Emperor, the old which has received its charter as a battlefield commission rather than in a sacred ceremony.
This is still held against the Centipedes by the other nobles. Their bloodied founding, their lessened seniority, their closeness to the base peasantry. But it is that very weakness that Chaurus has turned into a strength. A nobility of the people, they claim and practice. While other houses may own land, the House of the Spear also owns minds and governors. Like Chaurus of old the scions of the house see the world in front of them to conquer, and the world behind them to amaze and lead.
The Corporations
If the veins of the Empire are its Resonant Drills, then its lifeblood is the trade that links the economies of its worlds together. While no charters are needed to engage in this inter-planetary exchange of goods and services many planetary conglomerates, while powerful on their own merit, are unable to afford the cost of paying for their own Drills and must at best await scheduled openings and/or pay for passage fees that come with that. Those cartels that can afford to maintain their Drills or to have contracts with those that do are the imperium-wide corporations by whose purse the imperial economy heaves and ho’s.
At the center of these about a hundred or so companies ranging from gigantic to unfathomably large lies the IMC - Imperial Manezzo Corporation[6]. Having its origin in surprisingly not-ancient history (the Corporation is merely a thousand years old), being a conglomerate of previously successful companies from around the Pelian plane and several investment ventures from the Manezzo family whose wealth was obtained from looting during new conquests and rare gem mining. Nowadays the IMC accounts for a staggering 70% average market share in the Inbetween and Frontier across almost all commodities and services.[7]
Despite the family name of Manezzo being front and center in IMC marketing, the family itself has long died out. Nowadays the company is owned by a group of private shareholders who nominally control it through the company board. In reality, similarly to the Empire itself, the IMC largely runs itself to the worst detriment of both the structure as a whole and the people underneath it. The status quo has formed largely around the Inspectorate Offices of each plane the Corporation operates on. Each IO has for some time now operated as the central management office for its own plane, the local branches of various departments often answering to them before the central department hq back on the Pelian plane. There are exceptions, as on some planes one of the departments has taken the lead role instead, and on some planes the competition between parts of the IMC is more fraught than that between it and other corporations - some departments forming their own sub-offices for manufacturing, retail, construction and so on.
The IMC’s most important department for us is the Market Research and Development Department - Eberras Branch.[8] Like on most other planes, the Eberras departments are overseen and managed largely by the Eberras Plane Inspectorate Office. Officially the individual departments have their own budgets assigned to them yearly, and some earn revenue for the company directly while others do so through more indirect means. In actuality the individual departments often run their own accounting for their profits and losses, sending part of the revenue to the local IO and keeping the rest. Being assigned to a department with a lower profit-loss ratio is often a sign of a failing corporate career.
On Ledus Banum 77 the Eberras MRnD is king, at least until the local gubernatorial deputy secretary is satisfied with the state of the world to notify the governor, and subsequently send the same memo (as is tradition) to the Eberras MRnD who then are supposed to forward it to the Central MRnD through the local IO for consideration and… Well, you get the picture. While the goal of the MRnD is to get the local economy integrated (which in short means the development of local resource extraction offworld, creation of a market for imperial goods, and backing stable government backing the IMC) as much with the Eberras one at large as quickly as possible, while at the same time scouting out its potential and putting together an investment recommendation report, that means giving up corporate authority over the whole world to other people.
Other multi-planar corporations do exist, but they rarely can muster the resources of the IMC to come to new planes. They do not usually possess their own equivalents of the MRnD, being unable to just waste money for thousands of employees for nothing for decades. As such for the season on Ledus Banum itself the only massive corporation we worry about is the IMC.
The Temple
The Universal Temple of the Church of the Golden-Starred River is largely discussed in the Religion section of this document. It is a largely decentralized (shocker, i know) and diverse group. While the Allocationists serve as the main and dominant sect there is no such thing as a legal claim one sect can make to a plane. Factually they exist, as one dogma becomes dominant but that is more a thing that develops throughout the years until eventually becoming the status quo, with the leading priests usually electing the local bishop[9]. As such Ledus Banum 77 may be host to not just Allocationist but other denominations proselytizing as well.[10]
The main goal of the Temple on Tundra is quite obviously to spread the Emperor’s Love throughout. The success at which that is achieved is largely dependent on the methods of the preachers. Some communities may be open to embracing the faith out of fear, genuine faith, or desire for better standing in the Imperial hierarchy, while others may need convincing, proof, or measures to merge the local and Imperial faiths somehow. Others may yet reject it altogether.
Priests coming to Ledus Banum 77 will surprisingly find little oversight over their actions. A new land demands a new diocese, but until such a time as one is officially established canon law places the world as essentially a no-man’s land, where there is no bishop or prelate to direct the faithful.
The Chambers
In this document there is a lot of talk of imperial institutions (lower case). Things like administrative bureaus, offices, committees, and most importantly for us in the here and now - Chambers. While the first few are just regular scattered about imperial administrative forces working to keep the Empire running while adapted to local needs, and committees are often those Core-bound political bodies whose members play the Imperial politics, the Chambers (also called Great Departments) are the most vital parts of Imperial administrative security. Created for the sole purposes of controlling and administering aspects of Imperial life deemed necessary to centralize they could be most compared to ministries, but with a far greater degree of autonomy and leeway.
Chambers were first created by an act of the Imperial Senate as a means to organize the great burden the Empire suddenly found itself carrying somewhere in the middle of the conquest. The previous method of relying on noble houses, local administrators and governors, military legions, and senate committees caused constant bureaucratic pains and inefficiencies. In response were created the Chambers of: Communications, Commerce, Land, Citizenship, and Technology. Eventually, due to overlapping duties Communications and Technology were merged into just Technology, and Land and Citizenship into Administration. While other Chambers were created later, these three original ones are known as Grand Chambers, the most important, the most powerful. Chambers are overall responsible for a certain portfolio on an Imperial scale - they are regulators, protectors of certain vital aspects of government, and handlers of standardization of their relevant practices.
Both the Grand Chambers of Commerce and Administration are somewhat irrelevant to us. Both have fallen from their originally great perches. Commerce has been infiltrated and lobbied by the multi-planar corporations into impotence, and Administration is often mockingly called Registration, as nowadays their main reason for being is maintaining up to date registries of land ownership and origin of individuals in the Empire - a task so monumental that a 32% success rate of queries last year was considered an unprecedented success.
We are interested the most in the Grand Chamber of Technology. The most important duties of the GCT are twofold: 1. Regulate and maintain Resonant Drill transit, and 2. Secure and improve the means for the creation of Resonant Instrument from Ordinium. Both of these are obviously connected, and despite the GCT’s many other duties in all aspects of Imperial technology (including even investigating local innovations for potential integration) there is not a more important thing than the Resonant Drill duty. But such a responsibility is a boon by any other name. The obligation to maintain RD technology is on most planes and world equivalent with owning the local Resonant Drill and thus tentatively controlling who and what comes through. At the same time a disruption by the GCT in the transit of goods and people will most often lead to tensions, frustrations, and monetary losses. As such the Chamber often resolves to simply only monitor traffic unless major renovations of instruments, retraining of musicians, or maintenance of the arrival platform is necessary, during such situations delays and selective drilling is excused. Still, there are times when the magisters of the Chamber decide that the blockage of a route is essential, either in the interest of the Empire or the GCT. In such circumstances routes can be closed down for individual entities, goods, or even generally for prolonged periods of time.[11]
To Ledus Banum 77 the GCT comes for multiple reasons. While the obvious one is the maintenance of the local RD it is not the sole drive for the Chamber to become involved on Tundra. Most materially, the planet offers a new opportunity for another of the Chamber’s fascinations: native technology. The Empire may boast several inventions which may seem impossible or magical, but not all of these were invented by “pure” imperial engineers. Rather, many machines and devices which the Empire now uses to prolong its rule came about as a result of integration of the technology of newly conquered worlds. While such a thing actually occurring is mostly a thing of the past, the GCT still enjoys the hunt for novel native innovations. Besides the potential for discoveries a new world is a new world, and throughout the ages the Chamber has shifted from just a simple part of the administrative state to a patron of industry and production - Ordinium requires refining, metals require forging, fuel needs to be burnt to make more fuel. This has caused the Chamber to over time develop a not-so-healthy rivalry with the multi-planar corporations. To them the GCT’s own forays into manufacturing are a disruption of the natural chain of commerce, and to the Chamber the corporations and their pursuit of profit have steadily damaged the structures of government.
The Societies
Throughout the Empire exist many powers. Lesser ones, greater ones, hidden ones, public ones, real ones, and those mythical. Between the cracks of power, between the walls that the nobility, corporations, churches, and chambers build to ward off their domains. Between the jurisdiction of the planets, between the words of the laws that the Senate puts out. Between the memory of then, the reality of now, and visions of the future there lodge themselves these things and peoples without an allegiance to a charter or soil, but to an idea and a hope. There in the alluring hidden twilight grow the societies of the Empire, in the hearts of people whose own minds were kidnapped not by a force but a thought and which were never truly given back. Organizations which are born, live, and die in the darkness of the curtain of imperial politics, whose entire existence is devoted to goals unachievable by mortal means. Some say that the majority of these cliques and conclaves are just stories and myths to make those that exist seem more ominous. Others say that there are even more of them, none but their members know about. Others yet say that there is but one Society, spinning tales of confusion and turbulence like a river roil sends a sailing boat. There is, of course, only one truth.
Among the shadowy trembles of the imperial societies we note only one for our tale: that chapter on those who call themselves the Kindred of the Rhodium Throne. Out of all the tendrils of secrecy piercing imperial politics with well placed lies and daggers, the Kindred are perhaps the most powerful, and decidedly the most well known. Even if they once shied away from the public eye, they have now for some time enjoyed the benefits of being known. The fear, the supplicants, the recognition by others - in the plays of the Kindred there is a certain theater of expected mystery, but one which can only be played to its audience if those watching know that they are here to watch. What the Kindred show outwardly - their place as an institution of learned fellows, guided by principles of free action and wisdom, whose members often advise everyone from the patriars of the noble houses to local planetary governors, only serves to strengthen their nature of twilit intrigues and foggy plots. For while the audience thinks of them to be carrying out one plot on the surface, they subconsciously know of the Kindred’s real nature as agents of change and control, not of chaos but certainly of controlled confusion And then there is the last layer which the society hides only by embracing that misty form of intrigue wrapped in a a facade of wisdom’d men. Long have the Kindred stopped being a mere force of politics and darkened assassinations. Like all societies the minds of their members have long been kidnapped to serve an idea, and though is no lack of voices on the outside of their convent that would accuse them of their real goal being the end of Empire, on the inside the soundless voice of each Kindred supports the exact opposite - the eternal preservation of the Throne.
The Kindred came to Ledus Banum not to occupy, profit, or salvage, but to watch and oversee. Not just the natives either, but the other Imperials. Though it is uncertain with how much, if any, Imperial authority the Kindred operate, they are known throughout the elite circles of the Empire as clever and efficient advisors and spies, often more loyal to their employer than their own children would be. At the same time there is little doubt that their ultimate faith lies in their organization and ideals before any earthly employer, thus they are never used against the society itself. What this ideal is was never quite clear to the other institutions, and although they dwarf the Kindred in land, troops, and material wealth, the usefulness of Kindred minds, their ability to connive and convince, and their weight in politics have ever made them favorable allies. Their plan on Tundra? Publicly - to bridge the differences between the imperial institutions. Secretly - to wrap the governments of the native people around their fingers. Truthfully - as always, to secure salvation.
Parts sealed against player spoilers:
What is the true nature of the Kindred? Their name is part of the story. After the most recent Empire-wide civil conflict known as the Imperial Winter ended just over 18 years ago the Empire entered a period known as the Rhodium Age - a period of silent oppression and destitution as the institutions which survived the ordeal regained their bearing and returned to the mundanity of governance. Some compared it to a night that would separate the last snow and the first spring flowers, but in the case of the Rhodium Age it is unsure if that spring were ever to come. Yet the Kindred bear the very same element in their own name and are much older than even the Imperial Winter. What gives? In fact it is the Rhodium Age which has been named after the society by conspiracy minded individuals blaming them for its establishment, and some even for the civil war itself. In truth the latter accusation is baseless, but the former far more credible. While the Kindred did little to actually begin the Rhodium, they quickly usurped many positions of power in many great councils to prolong it and to further their organization’s standing. While before then the Kindred were merely an influential lodge of extraordinary individuals, now they stand as the preeminent information broker in the Empire bar none.
To what purpose is this power kept? For, perhaps surprisingly, messianic reasons. None of the Kindred follow any of the popular branches of the Universal Temple, instead subscribing to their own dogmas. While the belief in the Emperor’s Love is kept, the Kindred see their goal as not necessarily praising the Emperor, but preventing their downfall. To this end they seek to ferment dissent, anger, and rebellion on a manageable scale so as to make the Dark Messiah reveal themselves, and then to kill them and thus to ensure the Empire’s prosperity forever. To this end the Kindred have dabbled in tonal and ordinium technologies both for attempting to predict and to control the future in some way or another.


Events of Import
Imperial Winter, 19th Grapes - 19th Rhodium
Mutiny at Mots’wa, 19th Grapes
The R-Bomb, 19th Drake
Salvage of Kharvadthta, 19th Numbers


Burning of Velis Vel, 19th Fires
Battle of Limba, 19th Current
Peace of Minot, 19th Rhodium
Singwan Compact, 18th Time
Neo-Constellationist Creed Codified
Invention of Modern Astronomy
Much About What Else
On empire
Throughout this document I presented the Empire as being chiefly two things: Imperialistic, and woefully decentralized. At first (and second) this is a somewhat contradictory idea. A country like so should be stagnant and falling apart, just like it’s portrayed. Not ready to conquer new lands with legions of still excellent troops, just like it’s also portrayed. But the explanation for this I think lies with another thing the Empire is: Big. The largeness is such that it’s enough to allow the news rebellion on one end of the Empire to reach the other end a century later. At the same time the size need not be consistent for us in dev or during the season - it’s unfathomably large, to such a scope that it becomes pointless to answer questions like how many planes are there, how rich is the average person, etc. The answers are not known in universe, except maybe by some old forgotten imperial sub-committee. To us what matters is that the Empire is largely like this weird moving glacier. Melting on one side, while subsumming everything else in front of it. Sure it moves slowly forwards, but there it’s melting too. Eventually, like all things, the Empire is bound to end like all things are. That is, at least this version of the Empire.
On dates
Years are funny, especially when you are dealing with a country as old as the Empire. Throughout the text here you undoubtedly have noticed several references to years in the following format: Year of [Noun] of the Reign of the Emperor in the n’th Stanza of the Multiverse. This is done to confuse the reader. Well. Partly. It would be better to say that it is done to avoid having to state exact years in the long past of the Empire. Chronology is an asshole, and this format reminiscent of the olden days of naming years (Roman consuls or years in the reigns of monarchs) is basically a bit of a cheat code to not have to state a specific date of when things happened. To explain the system from the end first: the Stanza number refers to an “Era” of the Empire, and each Stanza so far has been a bit under a 1000 years long though they are not exactly equal in length; the “of the Reign of the Emperor” is static and unchangeable; the noun at the beginning is largely random, picked by the Grand Chamber of Administration roughly in the middle of the year.
When pressed for time the format can be shortened to just “Year of [Noun], n’th Stanza”. Other variations such as replacing the comma with an “of”, or adding R.o.E (representing Reign of the Emperor) there instead, offer some space for self-expression for those interested in dates. The shortest format recognised is “n’th [Noun]”
Each year is equivalent to a year on the Imperial world, and as such basically all other worlds have their own time systems - the imperial one is however used for interplanetary communications by law.
We are currently in the 20th Stanza, which began with the end of the Imperial Winter and the beginning of the Rhodium age. For the purpose of aiding the recent timescale (yes i know, contradicting the first paragraph about staying vague immediately - but this is only for the most recent events, as such it would be good to know these things) here are the last few dozen years (most recent and relevant picked) and their reference to current year:
                  * Year of [UNDETERMINED]  R.o.E. 20th Stanza - (Year 0) Beginning of Season 7.
                  * Year of Messages R.o.E. 20th Stanza - (Year -1)
                  * Year of Plums R.o.E. 20th Stanza - (Year -2) “Imperium Debilitia” is written.
                  * Year of Rain R.o.E. 20th Stanza - (Year -3) Ledus Banum is discovered and subsequently conquered.
                  * Year of Birds R.o.E. 20th Stanza - (Year -4)
                  * Year of Belief R.o.E. 20th Stanza - (Year -5)
                  * Year of Lies R.o.E. 20th Stanza - (Year - 6) The Rhodium age is considered to have ended by some, Zineb Reban Aleph takes leadership of House Aleph.
                  * Year of Courts R.o.E. 20th stanza - (Year -18) The Rhodium age and the 20th Stanza begin.
                  * Year of Rhodium R.o.E. 19th Stanza - (Year -19) Imperial Winter ends.
                  * Year of Grapes R.o.E. 19th Stanza - (Year -73) Mutiny at Mots’wa, Imperial Winter begins.
                  * Year of Pearls R.o.E. 19th Stanza - (Year -99) Centennial ball of the Imperial Manezzo Corporation.
At the same time this is a very cumbersome and confusing system in the universe. If an institution were to accurately track the years, it's likely they would have their own system based on some year being year 0. Maybe different institutions would have a different year 0. Maybe different departments of the same institution would have different systems with different year 0’s.
Pre-Imperial Tundra - The Winds That Blew Here Once


Imperial Ledus Banum - Shriek of the Melting Glaciers




________________
[1] Imperial means of travel and invasion, bolstered by the imperial core of incredibly well learned astronomers, imperial tonal architects are able to identify locations on individual planes where the Planar Resonance layer is "thin". With the proper instruments made of proper material, with properly trained (and enhanced) musicians, it's possible to transfer messages, people, materials, and even whole buildings onto different worlds. The usual procedure of transporting things between imperial words includes musicians on one side sending messages describing generally what is going to be transported and when (wouldn't want anyone to be at a location of a large obelisk suddenly appearing), the other side clearing the area and giving approval, and the sending being done. To fray time and space like this is of course awfully dangerous, and the instruments need to be made from the most durable material to even survive one such performance, the musicians themselves require a cocktail of chemicals, implants, and religious fervor to not lose their minds.
[2] The Imperial naming schema for worlds is quite simple. The first time a world is discovered, it is first compared to known worlds and if it is found to be a reflection of another one, it takes on the name of that world followed by a number signifying all the other worlds bearing the same name. If it is unique enough to not warrant “mirroring” a name, the privilege of naming goes to the organizers of the drilling - noble houses, corporations, sometimes even imperial legions. They are often named after individuals. The most common name in the Empire is Jan’s World 539228, but most do not break three digits.
[3] The Ingriots are Non-Baseline Humans native to the plane of Drummond Fars. Like most NBH’s they differ from “baseline” imperial humanity only slightly - in their case it's a second set of eyes on their face. Non-Baseline Humans are de jure protected from discrimination across the Empire, but outside of institutions where their unique features are desired or their native worlds they can face persecution. (Terms Non-Baseline Human is an in-universe name and not final. Empire is not meant to be racist towards them outwardly, but obviously institutional discrimination ingrained through the process of empire will and does exist. At the same time they are also just imperial subjects and the same proportions of them are collaborators and rebels as “baseline” humans.)
[4] Grouping of multiple worlds connected by Resonant Drills, culture and governance. Not necessarily on the same plane.
[5] He, she, they, one, many, immortal, usurpers, legitimate, the Emperor is a story rather than a person. To some it is a single man in the staging years of a wise eldership. To many she is a woman of regal aura and a resolute voice. To others they are a light at the end of a tunnel, a promise of retribution against corrupt officials. There deep in the core there exists an Emperor, a person calling themselves that, others who call them that. But they hold no more power of the Emperor than a priest giving a sermon about the Emperor, no more power than a magister reading a forged decree, no more power than the coin with a face of someone who is not them. To many it matters who the Emperor is, and people have and will die over it. To most it doesn’t nor will it ever.
[6] Detractors of the IMC need not be creative when trying to insult it, but names of diverse ranges of vulgarity have stuck over the ages. Such monickers as “Imperial Manezzo Cartel” (Weirdly benign, the word “cartel” has excessively bad connotations among the upper classes of the Empire), “The Corporations, I NEED INSULTS FOR THE IMC
[7] The Corporation’s sole embarrassing stumble has been the failure of its banking venture. Suffering from corruption and mismanagement during the 18th Stanza, the Manezzo banking branch was split up into just over a thousand entities due to imperial intervention.
[8] The MRnD is of course charged with finding new worlds, entering newly discovered ones, and establishing the corporation there. All other markets in the Empire are considered “researched” and “developed”.
[9] Names such as diocese and bishop are not final. Merely to express familiar concepts.
[10] It is a fair assumption to make that players joining the Temple might want to follow different beliefs from each other. It is also possible that as the season progresses Vega will somehow make the Temple follow one line of theological dogma, possibly outside of the any we described. Another concern may be that this introduces a strong immediate conflict within the Temple on LB 77 - that of different sects vying for the control of the institution itself. This is an issue as the other institutions do not have such an immediate and obvious possibility of conflict between players.
[11] One such example may be the continued blockade of Route Jangon 494. The plane of Jangon possess multiple Resonant Drills above the imperial average leading to several of the local worlds being very well connected. With cooperation from the local nobility and tacit approval of the Senate, the so called Route 494 which is the main artery of this connection has been closed down for centuries now, owing to a fear that its continued operation could lead to the creation of a so called “super-world”, a collection of worlds that due to enough Resonant Drills essentially exist as one single world, and thus garner attention and power above one which is generally allowed.