Tab 1
Region 9 – Tawaghet
Alternate names: Tavlagetia (Crinia), Taragetus (Imperial), Talagast (Aca.), Tiragets (Zdrolan
  Gameplay Divisions Recommendations
By order of granularity. Population estimates in parentheses.
1. Divide into six provinces (Iramest (20m), Outer Kormest (90m), Inner Kormest (110m), Baast (50m), Federal Gate (S. Olmast, 30m), Jowall et Kostin (N. Olmast, 30m))
2. Divide into five provinces (Iramest (20m), Outer Kormest (90m), Inner Kormest (110m), Baast (50m), Olmast (60m)).
3. Divide into four provinces (Inner Kormest (110m), Outer Kormest (+ Iramest: 110m), Baast (50m), Olmast (60m)), 
4. Divide into three provinces (Kormest (200m), Baast et Iramest (70m), Olmast (60m))
5. Divide into two provinces (Kormest (200m), Achamast (130m))
6. One province (Tawaghet, 330m)
Buildings, Resources, and Landmarks
Kormest has the Embroidered City palace/parliament.
Inner Kormest produces salt and claret (dye), as well as a major grain export.
Outer Kormest produces indigo (dye, lots of it) and Baastin banners, as well as a major grain export.
Olmast (via Federal Gate) produces lapis (dye, again).
Olmast (via Federal Gate) has the Federal Gate / the Kormestin Gates if combining gates
Southeastern Tawaghet | Kormest 
Alternative names: Komestis (Cri.), Coromestum (Imp.), Cirmast (Aca.), Korames
Kormest, named by the Empire Coromestum, is the largest, most populated, and most prosperous segment of Tawaghet, centered around the Hastaic Sea.[1] Profiting from trade with Region 11 and located on the border of the Crinian imperial center, Kormest was always heavily commercialized, only escaping full integration into the Crinian sphere due to a spine of mountainous and underdeveloped terrain separating it and the Crinian heartland. As it stands, Kormest is easily the most Crinianized segment of Tawaghet.
Kormest | Situations
Major | Kormest | The Federal Despotate
The preeminent power in the region, the Federal Despotate, is governed by a complex variety of clans, regionalists, classes, and powers that find their footing in the Federal Assembly and its Tyrant. While nominally subject to the Imperium, the Despotate retains an uncomfortable degree of independence - but also a great deal of legitimacy and state capacity to be tapped.
Major | Kormest | Claret and Indigo, Salt and Rice
Kormest’s exports of claret and indigo have made it rich, while its exports of grain and salt have granted it security. While Kormest’s trades stand independent for now, there is enormous value to tap in either direction- and consequences to follow in turn.
Major | Kormest | The Clans
Originally “clans” in the true sense, a past era of slavery caused clans to mutate into regional political party-guild-interest group-local administration combinations, formed and representing interests as diverse as specific armies, wealthy tax evaders, bar associations/”state” courts, and standard political coalitions. All clans have representation in the Federal Assembly, roughly based on population.[a]
Minor | Inner Kormest | The Hastamar
The Hastaic Sea has been shrinking for centuries, bringing economic opportunity and instability in equal measure to Kormest. Now, it seems as if its waning is at an end, bolstered by the growth of Outer Kormest. Still, changes in the patterns of agriculture or population may reverse this trend- and with it, the economic turmoil of Inner Kormest.
Minor | Outer Kormest | Baskora or Abalast? 
The two centers of Kormest are Baskora and Abalast: one a planned capital, the other a major port city left to dry by the recession of the Hastamar. For now, Baskora is uncontroversially dominant, but this may change with time and Imperial influence.
Minor | Inner Kormest | The Tenancy Movement 
Nascent debates about the abolition of tenancy have begun to simmer in Inner Kormest. While currently only vaguely formulated, the Tenancy Movement’s principles could potentially expand into a number of different directions- anti-Imperial, land reformist, anti-slavery, Crinian Seeker, Clan Statist…
Minor | Iramest | The Snowfield Range
Iramest’s snowfields are defined by the three-way conflict between Outer Kormest’s ice-mining farmers, Kormestin commercial herdsmen, and Iramestin indigenous pastoralists. While the region has been peaceful for over half a century, it all depends on the stability of the Federal Despotate’s hegemony- and the generous influx of wealth every year from the reindeer drive up into a prospering Kormestin market that has papered over all tensions.
Kormest | Divisions and Polities
        Kormest can be divided into three segments: the southern Snowfields, Inner Kormest (a ring around the sea and its isles), and Outer Kormest (a ring around that ring, in contact with the snowfields (Iramest) and mountainous terrain surrounding the non-southern borders of Kormest). Inner and Outer Kormest are economic rather than linguistic separators, and Kormestin states tend to cover segments of both regions. The southern snowfield is relatively underpopulated, and generally either nominally or fully subordinated to a Kormestin polity: it has only rarely managed to exert any sort of control over Kormest proper.
The sea in Kormest is receding extremely slowly due to pressures of the ice age and over-exploitation of the water: however, it is also unusually replenished by semi-industrial-scale glacial and snowfield melting for irrigation on the outskirts of the Kormestin Basin that ultimately flow into the sea. It is as a result much saltier than a normal sea, with significant economic effects.
Kormestin politics generally follows an indigenized Crinian model, having been developed through the influence of Imperial Crinian princedoms and institutions following sporadic periods of control. The most recent unified Kormestin state has even styled its ruler a Tyrant, though it remains an “independent kingdom” in its own and foreign eyes rather than a true claimant to Crinian hegemony. 
        Currently, Kormest is unified under a single semi-parliamentary federal monarchy known as the Federal Despotate of Kormest, or simply Federal Kormest, that has furthermore brought the snowfields under decentralized, but fairly secure, rule. The Imperial pacification sweep has only exacerbated regionalist tendencies, though the role of parliament and monarch as vehicle for these objectives has remained relatively secure.
        Previously, Kormest was controlled by several Kormestin princedoms in continuous territorial flux, and before that the short-lived Clan Despotate of Kormest, or Clannish Kormest (to distinguish it from its modern counterpart). Prior to this it was a Crinian-ruled but culturally Kormestin successor state, the Despotate of Komestis, and prior to that a mixture of the Crinian-ruled (still culturally Kormestin) Komesti Theme and Hastathàlast Theme, and the indigenous Kormestin Clans.
        The current political and economic capital of Kormest is the planned city of Baskora, located north of the peninsula in Outer Kormest, with a population of approx. 400,000. The historical capital, Abalast, is located in northern Kormest (formerly Inner Kormest, now borderline Outer Kormest) with a population of ~500,000. With the receding of the Hastaic, Abalast has waned in importance as a port city and agricultural center: still, with Baskora distinctly in Outer Kormest and again in the north, regionalist elements in the south and Inner Kormest have protested to restore or maintain Abalast or a southern capital at various times. Divisions between the two (somewhat-overlapping) regionalist groups have limited their ability to influence the move to Baskora, however.
Kormest | Economy and Military
Economic Base
        Kormestin land is extremely fertile compared to the rest of Tawaghet, but also isolated. Extensive receding of the Hastaic Sea’s shorelines over the past centuries has been controlled and mitigated by the construction of massive canals, reservoirs, and irrigation systems, but the sea has nevertheless shrunk due to overuse and climate change, causing a degree of salinization that has greatly damaged Kormestin aquaculture and most forms of agriculture along the coastlines (i.e. that irrigate primarily from the sea, rather than from the mountains). 
Conversely, Kormestin outer-belt agriculture has benefitted from the ability to mine the slowly-advancing ice sheets and glaciers for freshwater, as well as being able to hold productive land indefinitely without extensive infrastructural investment. As a result, Kormestin in the outer band tend to be wealthier freeholders, while Kormestin in the inner band tend to be tenants or bound peasants working to produce cash crops or intensive (and destructive) staple farming. Runoff from the outer belt into the inner belt also supplements and slows the depletion of the Hastaic Sea.
Kormestin agriculture is nevertheless intensive and highly developed, closer to an East Asian rice-based economy than a Western wheat or barley-based one. Kormest generally produces a large surplus harvest of grains, which it exports both to the western Crinian core and southward toward Region 11. Kormest increasingly sources much of its domestically-consumed meat from the southern Tawagheti snowfields, as its native fish stocks continue to decline.
As Kormest’s outer belt has continued to develop (particularly, importing industrial machinery and exploiting the generally higher productivity (and thus population capacity) of the region), freshwater flow from the outer basin into the inner basin has gradually increased over time. This is expected to gradually stabilize the level of the Hastaic at slightly below current levels.
Specializations | Kormestin Dye Production
Kormest exports a number of highly lucrative and prized natural dyes, with different “bands” specializing in different plants and colors. Notably, Outer Kormest produces Kormestin indigo, both exported in dried cakes and used raw in combination with ice treatments to produce a unique sky-blue cloth worn as a national costume by Outer Kormestin and Outer Kormestin farmers in particular.
Inner Kormest produces a madder-like plant, as well as a form of carmine produced by halophilic mollusks. The two are commonly mixed on silks and cottons to produce a stark, highly color-fast, and widely traded Kormestin claret cloth used as far afield as central Crinia for imperial robes. Both sets of dyes are complemented by other, more common and less prestigious dyes. Outer Kormest’s indigoes are generally produced and sold by farmers on a local or regional scale, while Inner Kormest’s dyes are produced en masse by plantations and exported across the world. Both are highly profitable.
(Note: Kormest’s indigo production is somewhat more productive than Earth’s, at approx. 40-90 (average ~65) lbs output per acre, at varying levels (15-50% indigotin) of quality.)
Notably, the strategic importance of Kormest’s grain and salt exports to Sanghieu and the commercial incentive of Kormest’s dye exports to Crinia have prompted foreign investment and occasional diplomatic or military pressure by other nearby powers. Currently, Kormest’s economy is mostly domestically controlled, with small shares of Sanghieu foreign ownership.
Specializations | Kormestin Salt Production
Kormest’s extensive irrigation network synergizes well with a growing salt production industry, especially as the seaside land in the northern and archipelagic Hastaic Sea increasingly resembles an outright salt desert. This nascent, and still very limited, “third ring” of Kormest is generally home to mining, with agriculture being nearly impossible. At current rates of depletion, the third ring would become contiguous in several centuries: however, recent economic and environmental trends imply the sea’s level is approaching stability. Exposed salt flats, and as a result large-scale salt mining, are consequently not expected to expand beyond the immediate future. 
Still, Kormestin salt exports are significant, particularly to the polar belt, though not as prestigious or as famous as its dyes. Again, the pressures of polar belt states for lower food and salt prices have occasionally influenced Kormest’s politics and agricultural patterns, though Kormest has general domestic control over the salt mines in the present day.
Military
Kormest’s military is federal and professional, though not centralized in command due to the clan system and dominated by a civil rather than military officer structure (purchased commissions, military-as-Parliament-seat, etc.). Uniforms, kit, and weapons are of standard, domestically-produced, early-19th-century form: in this respect, Kormest’s kit is broadly similar in quality to “normal” Imperial troops. However, Kormest’s military doctrine is underdeveloped on a strategic scale, and overly suited toward counterinsurgency and policing with a small professional force: it has not needed to institute a full mobilization for over a century.
Consequently, though fully adequate to deal with the surrounding Achamastin forces and project force within its hegemonic sphere, Kormest does not have and does not pretend to have the capacity to face a Crinian state of similar economic strength, relying instead on its natural barriers.
It should be noted that Kormest is nonetheless extremely large and wealthy by any indication. Kormest's military is like the pre-WWI United States: weak in comparison to European powers, but able and capable of force projection and limited warfare in the local sphere (Mexico: Pancho Villa, Seditionistas: Spanish-American war: roughly analogous to Kormestin intervention in Olmast, Iramest). 
Kormest’s military mobilized and lightly reformed to readiness could defeat any individual Crinian regional state, and draw parity with an average superregional coalition (i.e. Crinia Proper, Dytikratia, etc) in a protracted war. Individually, Kormest’s lack of mechs would cause it to lose the majority of its engagements against any mechanized group, but win by attrition.[b][c]


Kormest’s military is almost completely un-mechanized. Mechs are considered a Crinian phenomenon, and as such foreign and unnecessary.[d] At the same time, Kormest lacks the tech or proximity to have access to mechs, and as such would be hard-pressed to source mechs even if it had a desire to use them.
Kormest | Culture and Society
Slavery and the Transformation of the Clan
Mračeran and Ekilotian slave trade historically fuelled the plantation economy of Kormest, where an extant clan system attempted to absorb coherent families and social groups imported as slaves into extant Kormestin clans and tribes, or as new social groups as clans of their own. This process enabled the multiplication and fracturing of tribal and clan groups that once covered the entirety of Kormest, with many clans representing enslaved workers from a single plantation or set of plantations owned by a single entity, and slaves’ clan membership shifting with their ownership.
At the same time, the presence of a functionally chattel-slavery based economy made the traditional role of the clan in regulating connections, marriages, and (to a degree) judicial authority defunct: slaveholders, in practice, held most of these powers, while the (also-enslaved) clan heads of the enslaved clans were reduced to figureheads.
 As a result, these "slave clans" quickly lost the exclusive and ethnic characters of the old clan system, and instead began to take on new political and regionalist characters. Voluntarily changing clan affiliation, previously unheard of as a concept, became increasingly commonplace in Inner Kormest, while Outer Kormest's increasing prosperity and the spread of ice-mining irrigation prompted an influx of homesteading and settlement that similarly disrupted extant clan structures.
With the waning of the slave trade in the past several centuries, slavery also diminished as a system in Kormest through the actions of several revolts and political reforms, as well as the rise of indentured labor and tenancy. The new regional-political clan system expanded with the assimilation and indigenization of the old slave class, but above all the major shift was the increasing Crinianization of Kormest and the rise of the modern regional despotate. New political reforms banned hereditary membership or status in a clan, legalized and formalized dual membership and clan migration, formalized the locations of their boundaries, and integrated them into the federal bureaucracy. In the modern system, clans now act as something between regional parties and guilds/interest groups, arranging themselves into broader, semi-permanent national political coalitions. 
Taxation and “Two Lakh Clans”
It is also notable that the clans have traditionally collected taxes and done census, albeit with strong government oversight and inter-clan pressures for accountability driven by the parliamentary, party-like nature of their existence (and the consequent value of political attacks based on corruption or taxation). In recent years, this system has become increasingly federally regulated: a common populist reformer’s cause is the centralization and standardization of tax codes, due to the existence of several notoriously tax-evading “two lakh clans” (named for the typical wealth required for entry: two hundred thousand cakes of indigo in production, or ~20 tons) with oversized influence but undersized membership. The Seurbini (K: Saarbine: conscious use of Crinian name) are the most prominent of these clans, operating as a de-facto aristocratic party.
The Judicial Clan
As a hold-over from the clan system’s original function, Kormest’s clans still function as judicial units, with individually-determined procedures, crimes, and punishments. The degree of codification and institutionalization of these judiciaries also varies significantly. 
Several clans with large geographical purviews have evolved into specialized judicial clans, of which two – the Ardit and the Hamma, monarchist and constitutional liberal respectively – are the largest in jurisdiction and most institutionally developed. The two organizations enjoy close relations despite their doctrinal differences, and have standardized a number of practices into a semi-coherent, de facto federal code of judicial conduct. Both clans also have a significant amount of influence in their respective national parliamentary coalitions.
The clan judiciaries do not have the ability to pass legislation, but can judge based on common law or tradition. All major judicial clans, however, have adopted codified practices and follow the parliament’s decrees in a manner similar to a normal judiciary, albeit by practice rather than law.
Overall, the Ardit and the Hamma oversee around half of the judicial activity in Kormest, with the rest split between other judicial clans and non-judicial clans’ internal systems. Withholding cases for internal clan resolution is a common method of judicial corruption, as is the manipulation of the considerable judicial independence of the judicial clans to enable or block controversial verdicts or penalties without fear of legal consequence.
Holidays
The Reed Harp Festival is a commemoration of the Kormestin overthrow of the Crinian-ruled Komesti Despotate. While the resultant Clan Despotate of Kormest quickly fractured, the modern Federal Despotate of Kormest traces its roots to the Clan Despotate (and, to a lesser extent, the Komesti Despotate), and celebrates the Reed Harp Festival as its founding.
        The festival itself is nearly a month-long affair, with holidays scattered through the first two weeks. There is a period of labor and preparation during the third week, culminating in a full week of intense festivities during the fourth week. This pattern mirrors the progress of the original revolution: two weeks of coincidental (but intense) clan revolts that coordinated on the fly to seemingly disperse in the face of retaliation on the third week, in preparation for a unified and ultimately successful series of ambushes and peasant raids during the fourth week that shattered the standing army of Komesti Despotate. Combined with a lightning march on the Komesti Despotate’s capital (now under-garrisoned, and with Kormestin troops, no less!) and a palace coup, the Komesti Despotate was dismantled in a week.
        Particularly, the usage of “reed harps” by clansmen in many major battles –  a particularly poetic term for certain crossbows used to devastating effect by guerrilla archers – entered the public consciousness, giving rise to the Reed Harp Festival’s name. The modern form makes use of literal reeds in the form of a specific species of woody, salt-tolerant, bamboo-like plant that, when treated used as part of an otherwise standard floor harp, are just flexible enough to be used as a form of pitch bending and vibrato. In the past century, the traditional reed pole has begun to be replaced by more sophisticated metal mechanisms that produce the same (improved?) effect, and are likewise called reed harps.
Surban Day is a day of marriage. This holiday originated in Eastern Zdrolan several centuries ago, and was imported to Tawaghet by slave and commercial links. Surban Day falls at the start of the fourth week of the Reed Harp Festival, with the Kormestin variant of Surban Day standardized to the Reed Harp Festival’s calendar. Couples often prepare for their weddings in the third week, are married on Surban Day, and progress straight into the climax of festivities for the Reed Harp Festival as a honeymoon.
Faith and Religion
Kormest is generally Seeker (Charter) Dutsaist, with a strain of indigenous pre-Crinian religious practices mixed into the pantheon and mythology. Kerdaghite and Merouldist doctrines are present but politically marginalized. Humanism (deist or secular, but with occasional Kerdaghite and Seeker ties) dominates the political language and to an extent political norms of Federal Kormest, and the political class of Kormest has a strong secular strain.
Marriage Customs
        Kormest is generally culturally and legally monogamous, but with a history of permitting polygamous relationships where one or both parties are enslaved. In modern Kormest, with the functional (but not legal) abolition of slavery, legal registration of slavery is – oddly – primarily conducted to legalize the occasional polygamous marriage. Moral crusaders and reformists occasionally push to discontinue this system, but no efforts have succeeded so far in light of the generally small (but culturally visible!) size of the phenomenon and the presence of nearby polygamous cultures with whom closing such loopholes would damage relations and complicate migration.
        Kormestin marriage is traditionally centered around a ritual of shared drink with ceremonial artisan chalices: due to Kormest’s long history of commercialization, it has generally imported these chalices from external sources and modified them domestically (albeit somewhat less skillfully) for personalized use.
Art
Kormest leans strongly into its dyeworking techniques, with a focus on clothing and textile artistry. Current trends, somewhat resembling that of nearby Mračera, tend to focus on abstracted color-blocks and designs, but without as much of an industrial connotation. Kormestin art tends more towards complete abstraction and pattern work, 
The Royal Baskoran Academy is the center of the Kormestin fine arts scene.
Language
The Kormestin language has no incredibly close real-world analogue: the names used here are probably the best indicators of the aesthetics.
Fashion and Dress
        The archetypal Kormestin dress is a sky-blue indigo-dyed pantsuit, usually woolen, atop which is worn a stiff, decorated, denim-like twill cape going to the waist and a similar hakama-like split dress going down to the ankle. The garment is worn by both men and women, though laborers tend to wear a robust form of the outer garment with leather padding, a single skirt-piece without a central slit, and a cheaper brown or grey dye. Leather boots, of course, are virtually mandatory.
Claret red cloth is usually reserved to the wealthy elite, though the independent farming class does use the red yarn for embroidery and decoration frequently. The claret style is split between Crinian influences and Kormestin ones, creating generally a much greater variety in form, fashion, and shape as a result. 
Recent Kormestin fashion trends have trended toward the patriotic and somewhat pretentiously refined, roughly mirroring the rise to power of the Federal Despotate. The classic Kormestin suit has seen a number of variations in the cities, with different fabrics and colors (particularly untextured luxury fabrics in dark or black colors: velvets, cottons, and silks.) 
Traditional Kormestin outer garments were held together using ties or by the drape of the garment itself, but modern cosmopolitan fashion increasingly uses buttons to fit the loose, stiffly-draped outer garments more closely to one’s contours. Particularly, the past twenty years have seen the rise of jury-rigged trousers in which the split skirt is wrapped around the inner leg and buttoned on the inside of the thigh, leaving a stylish flare around the calf and ankle.
For women, “one-piece” garments have become common as well, integrating the inner and outer garments into a single (lighter) layer with gradients or patterns of color dyed in the cloth, rather than in the yarn (as used traditionally for the outer garment). While a conservative fashion scene has prevented these pieces from diverging too much from the traditional norm, foreign exports of the Kormestin one-piece women’s suit have been much less inhibited, such that the most stunning and creative examples of Kormestin dress are found on the royal waists of Crinia and Krstovlje, not Baskora.
Architecture
Kormestin architecture was traditionally wood-based. The Outer Ring maintains these traditions, having large (though diminishing) stocks of old-growth hardwood and softwood forests with which to build, though recent affluence and architectural advancements have caused a diversification of styles. In the warmer north, where hardwood oaks are more prevalent, half-timber is more common: in the colder south, where pines rule, clapboard and log cabins are more prevalent. 
Historically, mudbrick construction was shunned due to both a greater availability of wood and a history of major earthquakes: however, there have been no major seismic events in the past two centuries. As a result, brick and plaster buildings are replacing wooden buildings at increasing rates- particularly in Inner Kormest, where depletion and inaccessibility of forests has made building with wood an unattractive prospect. 
Inner Kormest generally follows the Crinian architectural model, and is home to generally more impressive feats of architecture: it is also home to much more architectural decay, however, due to its constantly shifting patterns of habitation.
Northwestern Tawaghet | Achamast
Alternative names: Achaemestis (Crn.), Agiomestum (Imp.), Ajimest (Kor.), Acames
Achamast, named by the Empire Agiomestum, is a broad name for the collection of regions in northwestern Tawaghet, near Region 7. While mostly pastoralist, Achamast also conceals many valleys and pockets of fertile land controlled primarily in clan or city-state structures. Achamast is largely economically self-sufficient, though its trade is closely aligned to the interests and extractions of its wealthier neighbors in Kormest.
Achamast | Situations
Major | Baast | Overpopulation Crisis
Two centuries of population growth and intensive cultivation have stripped the mountains of their soils and made the valleys into marshes. Baast teeters on the brink of a famine and a plague every year. How long does Baast have to survive?
Minor | Olmast | The Uncontacted
In the oases and hidden valleys of Olmast, seldom-contacted clans and isolated city-states hold sway over the vast majority of the territory outside of the three Kormest. Though raiding has waned with the influx of wealth and protection from the Federal Despotate, an over-eager Imperial official working to administer across the caravan routes Olmast may find their lines of communication dangerously vulnerable.
Major | Olmast | Federal Gate and Lapis
The city of Federal Gate is the base-camp for a profitable and rapidly-growing system of lapis mining in Olmast. Heavily racially segregated and extremely firmly policed, Federal Gate is nonetheless a major center of political power and (civil) dissent in the Federal Despotate.
Minor | Baast | Baastin Banners
Baast produces luxury monumental banners that are sought for across the world and festoon the palaces of Kormest. However, maintained only by a (rather exploitative) system of Federal patronage, and limited by cost and expertise, these amazing artworks seem to be permanently limited in supply.
Major | Achamast | The Kormestin Clan
A major prerequisite for integration into the Kormestin political system is the adoption of the Kormestin clan model. In Achamast, this process is formalized and advanced to various degrees- but highly contentious in every region. Low-level violence around the transitions is common, and there is no telling if or when Kormest decides to change the rules.


Achamast | Divisions and Polities
Achamast is a relatively underpopulated region, with large swathes of mountainous wasteland and low-density pastoralism. It can be further subdivided into two segments, an underpopulated dry southwest (Olmast) and a more agrarian, but poorer, rainy northeast (Baast), with significant cultural differences.
Olmast is generally considered “Kormest’s backyard”, due to effective Kormestin political control over the region’s trade. However, its indigenous cultures are highly isolated from their Kormestin relatives, and the two populations keep generally apart. For most of Tawaghet and Tundra at large, Olmast is simply a stop between Krstovlje and Kormest, though there are populations of people who live there in relative isolation. Its dry climate and mountainous terrain generally resembles Central Asia.
Baast is more closely culturally related to Kormest, and suffered a similar (but lesser) Crinianization. Crinian Wanderer culture has influenced the relationship between the sibling cultures, and Baastin culture is generally viewed in a romantic (though not idolized) lens by Kormest. Baast is also notably plagued by endemic parasites and fungi that proliferate in the wet climate and reduce agricultural yields, while also being in the throes of a population explosion prompted by changing agricultural patterns and political stability.
Achamast | Economy and Military
Economic Base | Baastin Agriculture 
        Baast’s agriculture largely follows the Inner Kormestin model with property elements of the Outer Kormestin homesteader. Farms are generally held in common or as individual or family holdings: large-scale estates are uncommon. Still, due to the intensity of cultivation, tenant and migrant workers are common, and generally outnumber landholders in number (though not in cultural perception).
        Notably, this has resulted in a strong outward pressure of emigration to Kormest and occasionally Olmast, in which significant Baastin communities and interest groups exist.
        The adoption of the intensive lowland model of agriculture has enabled Baast’s population to balloon in size, compounded by the onset of Federal Despotate hegemony (and stability) across the past two centuries in the region. However, while Kormest’s population expansion was accompanied by this fourfold expansion in cultivated area, intensiveness, stability, and wealth (by cash-crop export), Baast’s population explosion was only possible through stability and intensive agriculture. 
Consequently, Baast is relatively overpopulated (though still smaller than Kormest), and regularly encounters near-famines. While the Imperial expansion largely contented itself with a token pacification of the region, Baast is highly vulnerable to supply disruptions or political instability.
Specializations | Achamastin Banners
Both Baast and Olmast have long traditions of weaving tapestries and banners, combining the wool (hair? fur?) of nomadic herders’ flocks with the rich dyes of Achamast to create rich, durable banners on a massive scale. Exporting banners (albeit at disadvantageous and monopolistic terms) to Kormestin clans is a major source of income for the generally poor herders. The craft is recognized as a national heritage of Baast in particular, though both Baast and Olmast are equally skilled: Baast has simply specialized in the larger monumental forms, and Olmast in the traditional, “normal” form. 
Teams of weavers from Baast pursue royal patronage at the Academy in Baskora, where royal patronage gets them the best materials and the most expensive dyes on a massive scale. In return, their magnum opuses have earned the royal/parliamentary compound in Baskora the moniker of the Embroidered City, draped in opulent hangings and banners and pennants tens or even hundreds of meters long. Naturally, such grand creations are extremely desired outside of Tawaghet, where lower-quality (but still genuinely dyed!) copies or practice pieces by famous studios at reduced size are exported ready-made for the regular nobility in particular, the smaller (<30m long) “hanging” category of banners. Alternatively, longer (30-60m) long “nave” banners (so named because they cannot be hung vertically in most buildings, and are instead hung draped across the roofs of halls) are occasionally custom-commissioned by the wealthiest Crinian princes and Kormestin nobles. Finally, the largest (>60m) “federal” banners are, as the name suggests, generally commissioned by the Tyrant or Parliament as compensation for their patronage, once for each team, as a sort of “lifetime work”: several hundred are displayed across the Embroidered City.
Economic Base / Specializations | Olmastin Trails
Olmast contains three primary trails (Jowall, Kostin, and Mandis) that connect Kormest to Zdrolan. Each trail is blocked at the nearest Kormestin path by its own titular and monumental Gate, with each Gate often used as a metonym for the Trail.
The central Jowall Trail contains several significant oases that have at times played host to independent slave-trading city-states and clans, but is currently directly controlled by Kormest. Relatively poor mineral deposits along the Jowall Trail have stunted further trade, and the subregion is in noticeable decay compared to its prior wealth. The Jowall Gate, fittingly, was constructed by the early Crinian themes to control tariffs (at the height of the slave trade, but before the transformation of the clan system), and is also known as the Two Themes’ Gate.
The northern (i.e. more equatorial) Kostin trail is Kormest’s main route of general trade, being open for most of the year and hosting most of Kormest’s westward exports of dyes, salt, and grain (though still lesser in scale compared to Kormest’s eastward and southward trade routes). Though less habitable than the Jowall Trail, better climatic conditions and much more secure Kormestin military presence in the region have made the Kostin Trail the most commonly used in the modern day for trade. Its gate was originally constructed as a military fortification by the Despotate of Komestis to prevent raids from Olmast, and is known as the Despot’s Gate.
The most recently discovered southern trail, the Mandis Trail, is relatively difficult to traverse and open for a short time: however, it is also home to incredibly rich lapis deposits that have attracted a “lapis rush” of sorts from across Tawaghet, albeit tightly controlled by Kormest’s clans and Federal Despotate influence. Its gate was constructed for internal security and population control, and is known as the Federal Gate. 
Military
Both Olmast and Baast have at most clan militias for militaries, with no domestic arms production (and indeed little in the way of full state-polities). The largest, though by no means majority, military presence in the region is that of Kormest’s Expeditionary and Trail Garrisons.
Achamast | Culture and Society
The Jowall Trail
The Jowall Trail, despite its long history of independent trading cities and clans, is presently directly occupied by the Federal Despotate, with approximately half of the population in the region either belonging to a Kormestin clan or formally represented in its Parliament by a minority Olmastin clan. This is thanks to a legacy of slave trade past the Two Themes’ Gate that permitted the Kormestin slave-clan system to promulgate upstream, and eventually produced a compliant “upper caste” in the region after the Federal Despotate’s annexation of the Jowall Trail province.
Currently, there is significant tension over the question of expanding suffrage to the “other half” of the Jowallins, though not much of the rest of the Despotate- or even Olmast- cares. Jowall is simply too insignificant of a region to have much of an impact on the rest of the Federal Despotate, but the status of the Jowallins is a constant wedge issue in Parliament (similarly to (albeit in amplified scale) the French overseas territories, Australian indigenous peoples, or Puerto Rico and the US territories). 
The Federal Gate Lapis Rush
The city of Federal Gate is Tawaghet’s newest metropolis, having been built in the past eighty years as a lapis boom town on the border of Achamast and Kormest and drawing influences from across the two regions. Highly cosmopolitan (and disorderly) in its earliest years, Federal Despotate police and governmental intervention responded to a number of outbreaks of violence with some racial components by forcibly razing the slums and dividing the city into three “wards”- Kormestin, Federal, and Achamastin. The increased police presence necessary to carry out the displacement also had the side effect of crushing the unrest and independence of the city, but the current prevailing consensus among the government and the post-boom newcomers is that the policy of segregation was correct, though- naturally- claims and feuds over land, property, and governmental bias between the wards are still extremely common.
Culturally, the “old generation” of Federal Gate citizens tends to view the pre-intervention era with nostalgia, despite the very real poverty and lawlessness, mixed with a dose of nostalgia and contempt for the government people, elites, and money men moving into the city they built (and commandeering their old positions of privilege). This old generation has also recently organized itself into a unique clan, the Nawastin, that represents a coalition of the Federal Gate old blood and prospector-moneyed aristocracy, lapis miners from across Olmast (albeit now industrial laborers rather than individualist prospectors), and modern Federal Gate reformers and liberals who seek to do away with the ward system. 
On a tangent: Despite its relatively small geographical base and relatively recent foundation, the Nawastin Clan is already notable for having united these traditionally disparate interest groups into a major political force among the hyper-fragmented Kormestin Parliament, where it serves as an institution of common contact and cooperation among generally fractious interest groups. If the entire Nawastin Clan votes for or against a bill that isn’t directly related to Federal Gate or Olmast, then one can generally be sure that a major policy consensus or deal has taken place between the social-reformist liberals, nationalist aristocrats, and labor radicals, such that the innumerable minor clans belonging to those camps should vote accordingly with them. Consequently, the Nawastin Clan has acquired a position of an informal whip.
Clans in Achamast
Clans under Kormestin influence generally follow the Kormestin party-interest group style, and those that do are often accepted into the Kormestin Parliament through a semi-standardized process somewhat akin to EU membership. Those that do not, and to an extent those that do, however, act more like real-world, traditional clans: acting as governing and social structures in the absence of a strong state. There are strong conflicts between these two models of clan, and transitioning to the Kormestin model is viewed as a moral disgrace among the more conservative clans: notably, this has led to occasional outbursts of violence, with the massacres of the Ghailman and Thast clans being particularly notorious examples. 
Holidays
Generally identical to Kormest, with the addition of three Trail Festivals that begin on the day that each trail opens (and are hence “prepared” for weeks before, as the opening of the trails depends on chance). 
The Kostin Trail Festival is generally a mercantile and military affair, as deals are finalized and caravan schedules adjust to the climatic conditions, and set off by the departure of the Federal Despotate’s Expeditionary Garrison (Geldi clan), a bi-annual deployment of soldiers to the posts along the Trail and a recovery of the soldiers currently stationed, as well as an expeditionary force to resolve any extraordinary problems arising since the previous Garrison March.[2] As the Expeditionary Garrison will clear the trail if it runs into an impediment rather than turn back or wait, dozens of caravans will depart immediately after the Garrison to ensure a clear trail and get their backlog of products to Zdrolan as quickly as possible (and safely, under Garrison protection).
The Mandis Trail Festival was historically a prospectors’ festival, spread over approximately a week as prospectors broke trails out into the mining regions (and back!), followed by merchants catering to the already-overwintering prospectors heading out into the trail. In Federal Gate, the festival has since evolved into a general “lapis festival”, featuring a custom lapis-themed Olmastin banner and increasing amounts of mining-corporate money. The Festival is also a focal point of the cultural conflict between the old and new versions of Federal Gate.
The Jowall Trail Festival is a “two-part” affair, triggered by the first set of caravans from Zdrolan and Kormest at each oasis city: as these expeditions do not arrive at the same time, there are therefore two festivals, spaced up to a month apart as one approaches the Two Themes’ Gate or the mouth of the trail on the edge of Zdrolan. Notably, these festivals are also trade fairs for the resupply of the city-states.
Faith and Religion
Achamast is generally Seeker (Charter) Dutsaist, with a strain of indigenous pre-Crinian religious practices mixed into the pantheon and mythology, wherever Kormestin influence predominates and in the agrarian areas of Baast. However, Kerdaghites have a long history among the herding people and the independent clans and cities, and still compose a majority of those populations: the gap between their beliefs and the culturally orthodox (though nominally secular) religious politics of the Federal Despotate drives much of their separation and mutual alienation, and the threat of radical Kerdaghite freedom fighters/terrorists has been a recurring threat at various periods across the Federal Despotate’s history.
Marriage Customs
        As always, Kormestin policies rule where Kormest does: however, in the Merouldist regions of Achamast, marriages are generally polygamous in a fashion similar to Zdrolan, albeit with significantly more regional variation and varying degrees of looseness. Doctrinally, these marriages are supposed to be equal: functionally, the elite tend to have larger polycules and more exclusively centered polycules, resulting in occasional religious conflicts. As in Kormest and Malshkurta, Surban Day is the traditional day of marriage, though carried out ceremonially between clans rather than by temples (as in Malshkurta) or as part of a large civic festival (as in Kormest)
Art
See Achamastin Banners.
Language
Generally aesthetically similar to Kormestin.
Fashion and Dress
        Similar to Kormestin, with woolen garments and stiff outer coats: colors tend to vary more from the indigo costume of Kormest, though wearing the colors can make a point about one’s cultural or political sympathies.
        Notable addition: two-part hats, composed of an inner woolen beanie/veil, and a separate cloth or wooden ring-disk with a cushioned inner ring that acts as a shading brim, and can be worn independently of the veil.
Architecture
Where Kormestin influences are seen, Kormestin architecture is used: that is to say, on the trails and in Federal Gate. In the oasis cities, pale fired-brick, Central Asian-esque architecture is common, while Baastin buildings tend toward wood and half-timber construction akin to Outer Kormest. Baastin architecture resembles East Asian courtyard housing, whereas Outer Kormest has a more American, New England or log-cabin aesthetic. Nomads, common among all regions, use heavy canvas tents while moving and a network of stone buildings or cave houses as winter dwellings or permanent habitations.










  ________________
[1] Alternative names: Hastathálast (Cri.), Hastamar Sea (Imp.), Hastari Sea (Aca.), Hastal Sea
[2] Historically, the Expeditionary Garrison (parliamentary represented by the Geldi clan) was independently responsible for the pacification, policing, and taxation of the Kostin trail: presently, the Garrison March is a prestigious, semi-active, “plum” assignment for those who simply take the march and return (usually, officers and nepotists), and a dangerous counter-terrorism posting for everyone who leaves the March early for garrison duty in remote oases along the trail. An immensely popular marching song in the Kormestin military references this fact, with an Outer Kormestin roughneck being conscripted into the Garrison beside an (absentee) MP’s son with the same name: the roughneck is mistaken for the MP’s son, and his garrison duty treated as an outstanding gesture of dedication and humility: in the end, the roughneck eventually returns from his garrison duty to find himself elected MP in absentia.




[a](like the UK, "rotten borough" clans exist with more members than proportionate: apportionment is by law rather than automatic by census)
[b]Predictions:
Kormest's forces are of sufficient quality that they could attrition Dionaean light mechs, and are trained in counterinsurgency and anti-guerrilla techniques thanks to a history of Achamastin and Iramestin conflict.
[c]Kormest's forces would (as intended) lose hard to the Dytic heavy mechs' shock and battlefield dominance: a fully mobilized Kormest could outlast the Thursian armor over time, and outmatch the Launinrach military by professionalism four out of five times (the other one time, the Launinrach slaughters them with heavy artillery). Kormest doesn't have a navy/
[d]Pre-modernization Japan seeing a "black ship" as something foreign, but not necessarily **bad**. Kormest will adopt mechs if it loses to them, but otherwise will remain apathetic.