Region 6 – Tim & Fez
Region 6 – Ochitus
The great mountain civilizations of the south of the planet. 
Names: Tenebrae (Crin.), Pahāda (Naka.), Uraqtai (Suyuch. Coya.), Ochitu (Isoyu), Ochitus (Imp.)
                
  



High Mountain - Coyacucho Layer
Names: Coyacucho (Coyacuchi, Suyuchua, Imperial), Hoheechutt (Talsh, Ossed), Vervali (Isoyu)
Coyacucho lies at the top of the world, surrounding the summit of Mons Ochitus. Sparsely populated, this region consists of a large meadow plateau from a northeastern slope leading down to the Suyua region, as well as seven higher yet mountains, the summit of the central one being the tallest point on Tundra. 
Region Situations
Religious Division
A new religious sect by the name of “Yinte” has been taking hold in Coyacucho, threatening the religious unity of the region. This sect, argues that in fact the Sky God, Illayuq, and the King God, Huyuno, are the same entity, pointing to the fact that the point closest to the sky, and that from which all can be seen, is the highest point on the summit of the Mons Ochitus. This religious debate, driven in part by conflict amongst the priestly class, has inflamed tensions in Coyacuchi society. Members of the sect conduct sky burials in contrast to the traditional “throw the dead off the cliff or into a hole” “burials”, and, in order to keep the number of the gods intact, elevate the relatively minor spiritual entity, “Ahamucho”, which is traditionally associated with the Winter, to the status of full deity. Religious tension in particular is concentrated around the mountain dedicated to the Illayuq... 


The Legacy of Conquest
The Coyacuchi have recently been facing raids and conflict with the tribe of the Talsh from the Suyua layer. The Talsh, descendants of the previous group which ruled the Coyacucho layer, and who were expelled down the World-Wound by the Coyacuchi to the Krubaja layer have in the past 30 years (Following the collapse of the Central Krubajan Kingdom) made a migration back up to the higher Suyua layer, and aim to migrate still back up to the Coyacucho layer. Talsh scouts and spies have recently been spotted throughout the hidden mountain passes leading up to the Coyacucho layer, and minor conflict has become a common occurrence. 


Beyond the relationship between them and the Talsh, the relationship between the Coyacuchi and the rest of the mountain is poor. The Coyacuchi, who, along with the Suyuchua originally inhabited solely the Summit Road as a trading society known as the Cicihaki, are seen as outsiders following their migration and conquest of the central mountain regions, (Lake Suyuchua and the Summit, approximately 250-200 years ago). Furthermore, the Coyacuchi having previously expelled the Ossed, who were previously seen as religious leaders of the mountain, have claimed the title of “protector of the holy sites” themselves. This claim is hotly disputed, and many point to the doctrinal and theological differences between Coyacuchi Central Möng and the more popularly accepted Outer Möng, as reasons to completely dismiss the Kingdom of the successors of the Ossed.


By contrast, relations between the Suyuchua and the rest of the mountain are frosty at times, but mostly fine. The native mountain tribes, who often curse the Suyuchua for their high taxes on the Summit Road and their displacement of the native peoples of the lake, still hold diplomatic relations with them. The Suyuchua’s likewise poor relationship with the Coyacuchi for religious reasons (the Suyuchua still believing in the Outer Möng of the rest of the mountain), and defense of the mountain from occasional Kurtabardh and Ice Cave Tribe raids has earned them much goodwill.


The Summit & The World-Wound
At the end of the Summit Road lies a simple stone gate. Beyond this gate is still 1,500 feet of elevation. The areas beyond the road hold a deep religious significance. Priests of the Coacuchic religion have instituted a major taboo against going beyond the gate and desecrating the mountain. If one does go farther through the gate, they quickly find the gaping chasm that is the World-Wound, an ancient volcanic opening that gives light to the Krubaja layer. 


Region Divisions


The Kingdom of Coyacucho
The ruling and only polity in the region, the Kingdom of Coyacucho is a theocratic monarchy. The society is highly religious, centered around a Pantheon of 7 major gods, each corresponding to one of the mountains that rise above the meadow, the greatest being dedicated to the King of the gods, Huyuno. 


Governed as a religious monarchy, society in the kingdom is heavily stratified, with the King, priests, and warrior-nobles at the top, and everyone else at the bottom. Highly isolationist, the Coyacuchi have very little contact with the outside world, save for some minor trade. 
Region Economy
The Coyacuchi lands are relatively poor due to the gigantic wall maintained by the Suyuchua civilization lower on the mountain. The economy is primarily based upon mining rare metals, augmented by limited trade with the lake-folk and the occasional trading expedition into the depths. No one is exactly sure how they get down there from the summit, though.


Otherwise, the economy of the region is wholly preindustrial and poorly developed. Infrastructure is poor here, compared to other regions of the planet, and life outside of the capital of Humiastimwe or other minor cities is largely short and brutal. 


The Richest Meadow
On the Summit Road that binds the Coyacucho territory together lies only one sizable habitable zone above the great lake. It is a wide open plain where you can see billions of stars every night, and during the warm season, wildflowers bloom. The Coyacucho capital, Humiastimwe, lies on the Summit Road at the entrance to the meadow. 


The eastern regions play host to pastoralists, who raise and herd cows in the rich grass. Agriculture elsewhere in the region largely consists of free subsistence farmers who raise what few hardy crops can grow at the region's high altitudes. This is typically not enough to feed the entirety of the region, so trading, typically with Iu, supplements the food production here. 


The Ordinium Peak
Near the highest reaches of the great mountain lies a strange, jagged peak of a dark crimson color. The local polytheistic cults have always placed taboos against mining it or getting too near it.
Coyacuchi Culture and Society
Holidays 
Throw-someone-through-hole day (Translated literally),
They throw someone down the big hole!


Huyuno Day 
Huyuno Day celebrates Huyuno, who is central in the Coyacuchi religion as the head of the pantheon and the King God. 


In the Coyacuchi religion, Central Möng, Huyuno is said to have made the world and the gods and reigned over them in a long golden age. This lasted until a false prophet turned man against the gods. Thus, to punish man, Huyuno raised Mons Ochitus from the ground and froze over the world, after which he fell asleep. Huyuno Day commemorates these events, and it is said that on a Huyuno Day in the future, some say soon, Huyuno will awaken, Mons Ochitus will fill with Magma once more, purging those of bad karma who reside there and melting the world ice sheets in a great eruption, causing a great flood which will reshape the world, and create a golden age once more, this time permanent.


The Seven Holidays 
In addition to Huyuno Day, There are respective minor holidays for each of the other 6 gods of the Möng religion, worshipped by the Coyacuchi as well as others on the mountain. The other gods include 
* Suranquix, the commerce god
   * Depicted as having uncountable faces and to speak in tongues. Said to bring wealth to those who follow him. Said to be the Patron god of the Republic of Iu, though many there have turned to a more secular or even atheistic worldview.
* Aquaylla, the fertility and water god.
   * Often depicted carrying a jug of water, made from Ordinium. Those who drink it are said to have eternal life. Popular amongst the Coyacuchi and Suyua peasantry.
* Qollana, the metalworking goddess
   * Depicted as a strong and powerful woman, she is seen as a divine spirit which protects the mountain from outsiders. Said to be the Patron god of the Suyuchua military.
* Taki, the party god
   * Many festivals are dedicated to him, yet he is otherwise forgotten. More of an excuse to get drunk, than anything. Taki Day is celebrated across the mountain with large parades.
* Illayuq Qhantillay Pacharur Yachaymanqu Qosqorapacha, the many-eyed star god of the sky and weather 
   * Said to reside in the sky, his eyes as stars Illayuq is seen as a controversial god, many believing him to be simply a manifestation of Huyuno. Despite this, he still has his fervent supporters.
* Urak’aya, the war god
   * Depicted as the shortest of the gods, often shorter than a man, he wields a sword twice his size. Said to be the Patron god of the Talsh.


Burial Rites 
Traditional Coyacuchi death rites involve the wrapping of the body and decoration of the corpse, followed by the tossing of the corpse off the side of the mountain, or, for particularly notable individuals, down the “World-Wound”. Thus, in the process of the tossing of the corpse, it is said that by the deeds of the individual in their lifetime, the “Spirit of the Mountain” determines if the soul floats or falls with the body. Those who have performed good deeds in life are blessed with remaining in Coyacucho, whereas those who performed bad acts are fated to have their soul fall lower upon the mountain or even off of it entirely, the weight of their sins dragging them down, where they must climb it once again in their lives to follow.


Marriage Customs


Marriage among the upper classes is typically arranged to keep the bloodlines of the noble families “pure”. Much attention is given to ensure the passing on of “blueskin” genes.  Marriage is typically polygamous and happens on Surban Day, a cultural holdover from when the Cicihaki lived in southern Zdrolan. 


Marriage among the lower classes is generally free and monogamous, as there are no significant divisions between them such as clans, tribes, or castes. Surban Day is not typically celebrated, as the lower classes, as they trace their cultural heritage back to the pre Coyacuchi summit, where they were ruled by the Ossed.






Art
Among the upper classes, vast art galleries with art from across Ledus Banum can be found, despite the mountains relative isolation. Indeed, despite the xenophobia of the culture, it is seen as an “accomplishment” and often popular, to be able to escape the isolation of the mountain and see the arts of other cultures across the planet, though often the Coyacuchi see this art in a paternalistic way. Many a clay pot from Kurtabardh shows up here, and cultural elites often try to replicate the foreign art, often poorly.


It would be inaccurate, however, to say all Coyacuchi high art is purely derivative. Popular amongst the clergy and nobility, many, religious and religious adjacent stories, books, parables, and more are written, as the summit undergoes a spiritual renaissance as Central Möng continues to further distinguish itself from Outer Möng, both in official doctrine and the heretical Yinte sect.


Native Coyacuchi art on the other hand, made by the lower classes is often diverse as well, though the nobility rarely has any interest in it. Native folk music can also be commonly heard, often being old Nakara songs set to music. 
Language
Incan, Native Andean in inspiration, the language of the Coyacuchi is closely related to that of the Suyuchua, and the two are mutually intelligable. The two groups separated approximately 220 years prior, when the Cicihaki, having already migrated to Lake Suyuchua, split into the Coyacuchi and Suyuchua over religious doctrine (which would later cause the formation of Central Möng), and further conquered the Ossed “Order of the Summit” which previously ruled the Coyacucho layer.


The Coyacuchi language is not native to the peoples of the region, except for the blueskinned elite. Rather, the native peoples began speaking it after the conquest made it a prestige language. 


The native peoples of the summit previously spoke a language related to Ossed, but when they were thrown down the world-wound, use of the language was strictly forbidden.
Fashion and Dress
Certain Coyacuchi, as a result of the low oxygen content at the top of Mons Ochitus, have developed a mutation which gives them blue skin.  This mutation is seen as aesthetically desirable, but, due to it’s recessive nature, it occurs quite rarely, and selective breeding has seen it largely present only among the upper classes of society. This has lead to a tradition of nudism among the Coyacuchi elites, allowing them to firstly display their blueskin prominently, and secondly show that they have the privilege of living in heated areas where they can comfortably live without clothes. 


Clothing and fashion amongst the lower class is by comparison very practical. Living at the top of the top of the world, relatively far south means that temperatures in the region are often below freezing. Parkas, thick pants, and mittens are common.
Architecture
Stone buildings with rocks that blend together almost seamlessly. No major constructions for religious buildings as they consider the summit itself to be a temple. They have a castle or two near the wall that the Suyuchua have built partially for defensive reasons and partially for prestige.
Cuisine
A common sight in Coyacuchi, Summit Duck is a popular food amongst the elites. Hunted recreationally, many a noble enjoy Summit Duck with a red wine sauce on Aquaylla Day.




The Lake & Valleys - Suyua Layer
Names: Suyua (Coyacuchi, Suyuchua, Imperial), Iuminkomy (Vras Kamra),  Hazar Hovitneri Yerler (Isoyu)
The Suyua region is full of isolated valleys that are dispersed throughout the upper sections of Mons Ochitus and one large lake called Suyuchua, from which the layer gets its name. The civilization in this area lives around the lake and is deeply militaristic, maintaining the wall that keeps the people of the summit out of their land and that of the valleys. The Suyuchua culture, belonging to the Kingdom of Suyuchua maintains three major cities on the lake where their population lives en masse.
There is a vast diversity of tribes throughout the valleys. Three cultures have established themselves as notable independent states in them; in the Southeasternmost valley lies the Republic of Iu, of the Isoyu culture famous for their tall stone fortress towers, the wolf-tamer tribe of Vras Kamra in the northernmost valley, and the Talsh, a tribe rebent on reconquering the mountain peaks. 


The term “Suyuchua” and “Suyua” must be held as distinct, the first term referring to only the people residing within the Kingdom of Suyuchua,  whereas the second refers to all people within the Suyua layer, including the Suyuchua, but also the Talsh, Isoyu, Vras Kamra, and other tribes.


Region Situations


Guardians of the Passes
The Summit Road passes from the equatorial lowlands to the very top of Mons Ochitus. The Kingdom of Suyuchua maintains a wall at the narrowest part of the lowest entrance and the wall that keeps the summitfolk at their eyrie. This has led to a large percentage of their society being devoted to their army. 


It is said in legend that 1000 years ago, a Crinian Army once tried to make their way through the passes only to break at the wall, guarded by the ancestors of the Suyuchua, and be thrown back, after which outsiders never tried to conquer Mons Ochitus again.  In reality, guarding the summit road does not protect the mountain from incursion or contact through the thousands of passages through the cavernous ice sheet, nor were the ancestors of the Suyuchua (the Cicihaki) living near the wall at the time (as they lived further down the Summit Road and in Zdrolan at the time) as it was in truth, the harsh terrain of Ochitus, and the inability to subjugate the mountain tribes there that led to their eventual withdrawal from the area, after a failed campaign, rather than any singular battle at the Summit Road (though one was recorded to have happened, forcing the Crinian Army through the harsh Ice Caves instead, a contributing factor in their logistical troubles!)


Recently, the Suyuchua's position as guardians of the passes has been reinforced as the Kingdom has undergone major military reforms, importing modern firearms from the Republic of Iu and modernizing doctrine after a recent war with the Vras Kamra over a disputed mountain valley.


 
Iu Ascendant
In the mountain valley occupying the opposite side of the mountain from the entrance lies Iu, an incredibly industrious, incredibly small city. Their people are long-lived, and produce some of the best-made firearms on the planet, despite being one of the only areas that produces firearms in the region.


Furthermore, Iu is intent on expanding and using its industrialization to do that. They raid the lower layers for peasants to work in their factories and are expanding by using client kings from the area to do their bidding. 


Industrial Discontent
Industrial growth in Iu has not come without troubles. Growing discontent between the industrial workers and the growing capitalist class has led to social discontent in the country. Strikes are on the rise, and radical and revolutionary parties are on the rise. On the other hand, the apparent passivity of the ruling Whig government towards the leftist radicals has led to discontent in the traditionally conservative military, and whispers of a coup can be heard in the far corners of the Iu colonies in the deep, where the most reactionary of their officers are sent to die. 


Suyua Religion
Culture across the lower portions of the mountain differs immensely across the various valleys and peaks of Mons Ochitus common tie between most regions is the religion of Möng, which it shares with Coyacucho and Krubaja. There are, however, significant differences between the Suyua and Coyacucho religions. Firstly, the Suyua people do not typically recognize a strict separation between the “seven” gods, instead focusing on the “spirit of the mountain”, from which all other deities, particularly the seven greatest gods, emanate (though who are still considered independent entities). Secondly, Suyua eschatology or karmic segmentation is not as well defined, with most simply believing the world will likely continue indefinitely, Huyuno becoming the “spirit of the mountain” itself. They also believe that while the mountain is sacred and those who live there have a deeper connection to the gods, there is no meaning in one’s place on the mountain itself. However, the Suyuchua themselves do believe they hold a special role in protecting the mountain from the “sinners” from outside it.


Minor religions do exist on the mountain if course, diverse as it is. Notable minor religions include the pantheon of the Vras Kamra, who believe in a completely separate set of gods from the rest of the mountain, and the religion of the Southern Talsh tribe, an upwardly migratory people from the Krubaja layer, and who live in the Mountains bordering the Coyacuchi and share similar supremacist beliefs.
Region Divisions
Kingdom of Suyuchua
The largest population of the mountain cultures, is centered around Lake Suyuchua, of which they are named. Ruled by the Kingdom of Suyuchua, they maintain a large standing military to police the Summit Road and keep the Summitfolk on their peak. They maintain three large agriculturally focused cities that feed their people and make surplus calories to trade with the other mountain cultures. They don’t allow non-mountain people from the lowlands onto the mountain and maintain the large trade city of Qoszo at the lower gate, located at the widest part of the ice canyon containing the summit road. 


This has led to the recent history of Mons Ochitus being relatively isolated, with the most of contact being trade which occurs between Ochitus and Zdrolan, recently more commonly through the cave sheet these days, as the Suyuchua who control the Summit Road have imposed higher taxes on merchants and travelers making their way up. Such conditions have caused trade relations to mildly decline in recent times, though trade ties between the Suyuchua and the people of Kurtabardh in Zdrolan remain strong.




The Republic of Iu
The Isoyu people inhabit the southeasternmost valley and are a low-population culture. They have an obsessive focus on education. The majority of their population lives in the city of Iu, the only place on Mons Ochitus that has undergone any sort of an Industrial Revolution. It is a place known for its gunsmiths and quality weapons.  


The Republic of Iu is itself governed as a capitalist democracy, a rarity on Tundra, the liberal politics of the city, which, while previously an irrelevant trading city governed by merchants rose to prominence after independently developing industrial technology over the past century. While not immune to corruption, indeed, it is quite prominent, the Republic hosts a vibrant multi-party presidential democracy, the major parties being the Party of Resistance, better known as the Conservatives, and the Whig Party. Minor parties include the new but radical and increasingly popular Iu Workers and Peasants Party, and the traditionalist “Party of the Sword”, popular amongst the military. 


Of course, access to the democratic system is only available to those living in the city of Iu itself and the surrounding valley. Regions outside of the valley, notably the valley to their north, as well as those caves influenced or ruled below them are treated as colonies. Common Iu political theory posits that these regions must be “Isoyuized” before being fully integrated into the state, though in reality, the regions are left destitute and exploited by the upper classes of Iu.


The Vras Kamra
These people occupy the northernmost valley of mons Ochitus and tame wolves. They are a particularly organized tribe with some sedentary agriculture occurring, but most are still wandering tribesmen. A long and storied people, they have existed for the greater part of two millennia, and remained independent in some form or another for most of it.


The Talsh
The Talsh, related to the Ossed of the Krubaja layer, separated from them after a doctrinal difference related to their expulsion from the mountain peaks by the Coyacuchi. The Talsh now share similar supremacist views to the Coyacuchi but believe they were expelled from the lands by them due to their sins, rather than to evangelize. Now, after a period of “atonement”, they seek to now climb up the mountain and reclaim the peak from its occupiers, unlike the Ossed, who have embraced their position in the caves. They hold the original views of the Ossed, before their expulsion by the Coyacuchi.


Assorted Other Tribes
Hundreds of other tribes, inhabit the great mountain with languages nobody understands in crags that few men have seen. They periodically raid, some plant potatoes, some persist in their valleys and interact with nobody. 


Notable minor tribal entities include:
* The Henukhh Confederation, a confederation of multiple tribes. They are officially an Iu protectorate but the Republic exercises very little control over them in practice, instead opting to simply use the protectorate as an excuse to colonize their lands without repercussion.
* The Arshtini, a tribe famous for their role as mercenaries in the intertribal wars of the region.
* The Kryrs, are notable in so far as they are actively being colonized by the Iu and not much else. Interestingly, they follow a similar religion to the Vras Kamra.
* The Atuls, famous for their famous yodeling and singing. It is said that when they sing as one in from their homes in the mountains, one can hear them even in Zdrolan. 
* The Tidins, notable for their common raids of the Vras Kamra and Coyacuchi. 
* The Laku, a peculiar people, genetically and religiously related to the Nakara though speaking a language seemingly predating them, have no cultural relatives in the region.
* The Rekajj, a people originating from the Vardashë region of Zdrolan. Approximately 50 years ago, they made a migration through the cave sheets and up into one of the valleys, settling near the Laku and the Tidins.
* The Chigar, a tribal ally of the Suyuchua, they are often used as auxiliaries in conflicts with the Coyacuchi. 
* The Gobobers, notable mostly for being the single largest and most organized tribe in the Southwestern valley, which is otherwise divided between dozens more. They once lived around Lake Suyuchua before being expelled by the current residents.
* The Cheruscin, descendants of the attempted Crinian conquest of the region. In the aftermath of the invasion, they still held much territory, but quickly fell apart. They are primarily Dutsas-Worshippers.




Region Economy
The economy of Suyua can largely be summarized as largely preindustrial, same as the rest of the mountain, with the exception of the Republic of Iu, which is host to a decently sized and growing industrial economy. 


Modern Industry
The Iu, the sole industrial power on Mons Ochitus has recently been going through an economic boom, with Iu products being sold all across the mountain. Indeed the people of Iu have never been richer. Particularly, military products have been sold to the warring clans of Krubaja, fanning the claims of conflict there. Of course, with economic rise comes the inevitable fall, and some say it is only a matter of time before the bubble pops. 


Subsistence Fishing
Suyuchua peasants make their way through a harsh life, relying on the waters of the lake to sustain them. Indeed, with the Suyuchua culture largely focused on their martial prowess, little attention is given otherwise to the economy. Despite this, the fish of lake Suyuchua are reported to be some of the best-tasting in the world, and many people from afar have come to taste the fish there, that is, if they can convince the guards to let them through the mountain gates. If economic development were prioritized, Suyuchua fish could become quite the commodity, though the size of the lake requires that overfishing does not occur. 


The Summit Road 
The Summit Road, being the safest route between the equatorial band and Mons Ochitus is commonly traveled by merchants and traders of all kinds, seeking to sell their goods, primarily foods and spices, to the people of the mountain. Of course, this comes at a high price, the Suyuchua impose tariffs and taxes on those travelers and their products, to fund their militarized society. Trading primarily happens in the city of Qoszo, as the Suyuchua forbid outsiders from traveling further up the mountain due to their religious beliefs. From there, goods from outside the mountain are resold all across the region, though often at a high price. This coincidentally benefits the Iu, whose protectionist policies have caused them to align with the Suyuchua, hoping to keep their own agricultural products competitive. Of course, not all trade between Zdrolan and Ochitus can be stopped, and often many a wise trader makes his way through the treacherous cave sheet, in what passages can be considered safe, and there is a significant group of Kurtabardh smugglers who have built up a life doing just that.
Region Culture and Society
Holidays
The Seven Holidays
Similar to the Coyacuchi, every god gets a holiday. Unlike the Coyacuchi, however, the people of Suyuausually do not profess Huyuno to be the “leader” of the gods, due to their lack of belief in Coyacuchi stories of the creation and the ends. Nevertheless they revere him the same as the chief god of Death and of the will of the mountain. Otherwise, they celebrate the other six holidays of the gods the same.


Lupus Day (Translated)
Celebrated by the Vras Kamra, Lupus Day centers around their wolf taming culture. Feasts, festivals, and wolf related activities take place. At the end of the day, the chieftain of the Vras Kamra accepts a new wolf into his personal bodyguard, staffed by wardogs and their tamers.


Half-Taki
Ever an excuse to hold more festivals and parties, the festival of Half-Taki takes place exactly half a year after the festival dedicated to Taki himself, the party god. The festival, which takes place in the early winter, sees many public displays of drunkenness and debauchery. Large families celebrating Half-Taki often fast for a week prior, so they may be hungry enough to eat an entire Suyua Swine. The festival is most commonly celebrated in the Kingdom of Suyuchua and other mountain tribes, the festival has fallen out of favor in Iu as industrial capitalism became prevalent. Quarter-Taki festivals happen across the region too, but are less popular. 
Burial Rites
The majority of the region, which follows the religion Outer Möng have cliff or cave burials, similar to the Coyacuchi. Otherwise, burial rites vary wildly between mountain tribes which follow minority religions, ranging from simple burial in the ground as the Laku do, to elaborate festivals where the body is often mutilated and consumed, common amongst the Vras Kamra.


Marriage Customs
Monogamy. Often patriarchal in nature. Women are often put under the guardianship of their fathers and later husbands, typically married off to secure relationships between families in low society and between tribes in high society.


Traditional culture in the Republic of Iu has softened a bit, due to the rise of secularism and democracy. Women enjoy many rights there not seen on other parts of the mountain, the Isoyu Women’s League has successfully campaigning for the expansions of rights of women in the Republic, though, suffrage still remains limited to adult men.


Marriage in the Suyuchua lands typically happens on Surban Day, a cultural holdover from when they lived in Zdrolan. The Zdrolan polygamous marriage style, however, has fallen out of practice, with typical patriarchal monogamy being the norm.
Art
The mountain valleys have rich veins of Lapis Lazuli. 


[TODO]
Language
The Suyuchua people share a language family with the Coyacuchi, both descending from the Cicihaki peoples who lived in on the lower Summit Road between Zdrolan and Ochitus. 


Most other peoples of the mountain follow a countless amount of other languages inspired by the caucasian languages of our own world Quite often, the people of one valley are unable to speak to those living on the mountains right next to them. Still, there are regions with more standard or popular languages, the territories under Iu speaking the common Isoyu language, which could be compared to certain North Caucasian languages of our world. Such common language was established by the Republic of Iu over the past 50 years. The Republic, establishing mandatory and modern education, eradicated the regional dialects and native languages in favor of establishing a common language and identity. Elsewhere, the peoples of the valley of the Vras Kamra speak languages in a dialect continuum, sounding similar to the South Caucasian languages of our own world.


The Atul tribe share a language family with the languages of the Krubajan people, indeed, most Krubajan languages originated from ancestors of the Atuls, who were the first to migrate into the layer nearly 9000 years ago.


Fashion and Dress
The people of the Vras Kamra wear wolf ears and tails on festival days. Clothing otherwise in the region is a mix between traditional dress such as large fur coats to protect from the cold enviroment, and modern clothing bought from Iu.


The prominent fabrics industries in Iu produce modern clothing, similar to the clothes seen in Meiji Japan, as Isoyu modernizers who traveled Tundra far and wide brought equatorial fashion styles to the city as it developed industry. Traditional Isoyu dress is mostly out of fashion except during certain holidays but it was historically similar to early modern traditional Japanese dress. 
Architecture
Terracotta in the Suyuchua lands, inspired by architecture in Zdrolan, the Suyuchua, unlike the Coyacuchi, have a large base of settling migrants which have formed the cultural core of the region. 


In the valley of the Vras Kamra, people typically live in large thatch and wood houses, in which an entire extended family typically lives. These buildings, which can usually house over 100 residents, are typically built apart from another, each one having domain over the nearby woods.


Traditional Isoyu architecture in rural regions, near farms or small towns is a mix of small houses and stores typically wooden with stone bases, as well as complex fortified citadel towers, which serve as temples, fortifications and government buildings. In urban regions, the old quarter of Iu is made of wood and paper. More recent Iu constructions are concrete and steel, with the first skyscraper on the mountain, “Second Peak”, being recently finished.
 
Inner Mountain - Krubajuhinskera Layer
Names: Krubajuhinskera (Isoyu, Gilak, Tabasaran, Imperial), Crubaji (Ossed), Gyiyul (Nakara)
Krubajuhinskera, better known as just “Krubaja”, is an entirely underground, or depending on how one looks at it, “under-ice”, region of the planet.  This region is lit by the occasional ravine, hole, or crevasse, but mainly through the giant hole in the top of the mountain that shines brightness on a large, central plain in the center of the mountain where the main cities of this layer have been built. There are few powerful states down here- this region is subject to raids from the cave-layers below and more so the political machinations of the states that are in the above-ground valleys- notably the ascendant city of Iu that is trying to gain influence in this area, having colonized a significant portion of it.


Otherwise, there exists a large but sparsely populated region of ice caves which exist outside of the mountain, where migratory clans, eke out hard lives. Persisting off of what few natural resources that do exist, and occasionally raiding more settled peoples. The caves surrounding the mountain are spongy and porous. Travel is hard but possible, and many a Kurtabardh smuggler looking to avoid the harsh taxes of the Summit Road travel through here.
Region Situations


Fight for the Light
Land that gets hit by light in any way is incredibly valuable in this area. It makes real estate worth dying over and is the residence of kings. Light has a significant amount of cultural relevance to religion and architecture. The brighter the hearth, the wealthier the person. The slightly warming climate has led to more light being available over the past century. Increasing conflict between the clans of the region over the increased light would cause great instability in the region, and the weakening of the central authority of the Central Krubajan Kingdom.


This, among other causes such as increasing raids from the Nakara and Ice Cave Tribes, as well as economic downturn resulting from a depletion of easily available resources, would ultimately lead to the complete collapse of the Kingdom, which previously controlled much of the central cavern. The collapse, which occurred approximately 30 years prior, led to the region now being divided among several warring clans, who have been fighting a civil war since to reunite the region. 


Notable clans include the Karatas, Tabasarans, and Gilaks. A significant ideological and religious aspect of the conflict has recently emerged, with Iu client clans often clashing with those that have converted to the religion of the Ossed.


Iu’s Gambit
The previously mentioned city of Iu one layer above sees this layer as a prime expansion zone. Because of this, they are forming a network of client kings and allied tribes that is gradually expanding outward from their section of the cave. They have prevented industry of any kind from developing in this area, and dismantled what meager industry already existed, so that they can maintain a monopoly. This has caused widespread economic dependance on Iu in this region, and indeed, industrial products imported from the Republic can often be found throughout the layer. 


Ossed Evangelicalism
The Ossed are the descendants of a people from the peak of the mountain, since expelled by the Coyacuchi and forced down the World-Wound, a journey they barely survived. Their religion used to resemble that of the Coyacuchi, with the belief that their position atop the mountain made them superior. However, this was generally understood as them being the protectors of holy sites and leaders of the Möng religion rather than outright supremacists. After being exiled from the mountaintop, the Ossed adapted their religious views out of necessity. They now believe their exile was of a divine purpose, as they spread their variation of the Möng religion throughout Krubaja as missionaries can be found in even the deepest caves. This religion espouses the unity of the Krubaja people, freedom and liberty for the oppressed, and militancy against the so-called “Mountain Tyrants”, arguing that the people of the caves and ice find themselves closer to the gods and spirits of the mountain than those living on top of it. 


AIRPAD
In portions of the region administered or influenced by Iu, a resistance organization, inspired by the ideologies of revolutionaries in Iu itself, has formed. The “Anti-Iu Revolutionary People’s Army of the Deep”, or AIRPAD for short, is a radical group, that calls for the total liberation of all peoples from oppression. Their radical socialist political opinions occasionally cause tensions between them and other anti-Iu groups in the region, particularly the typically socially conservative and religious Ossed. Still, successful resistance to the Republic is rare, the Iu military holding a significant technological edge, particularly in their infantry.


Region Divisions


The Duchy of Karatas
The Karata People are notable for their significant organization and martial prowess, but also their tolerance of the significant Ossed minority. It is from the tribe of the Karatas, which has entered with an alliance with the Ossed people after converting to their religion. The Ossed, themselves a minority spread across Krubaja, spread their religion by allying with tribes such as the Karatas.


The Krujëstar League
Over the past 20 years, many of the trade cities and towns founded by Kurtabardh merchants in the ice sheet have banded together to form a loose confederation known as the Krujëstar League, named for the trade route that passes through the ice caves. The league serves as a commercial forum and defensive alliance against the native nomadic tribes and occasional Suyuchua incursions. 


The Commune of Tabasara
With the conflict between Iu and the native clans of Krubaja in full swing, native resistance groups such as AIRPAD have taken it upon themselves to fight against what they see as colonialism. One such victory of AIRPAD was the expulsion of the Iu from the region of Tabasara, which was natively ruled by the Tabasaran people. While nominally a revolutionary state fighting against Iu colonialism, in truth, the Commune of Tabasara’s politics are often built around family corruption and repression of dissenters.


The Gilak Protectorate
The Gilaks are a clan, like many others, under the rule of the Republic of Iu. Having signed a treaty of commerce and friendship with the Republic, the Gilaks have, in a hope to gain the favor of the colonizers. Despite exploitation, many a Gilak working harsh conditions in mines run by Iu capitalists, the tribe as a whole has gained power in the region, conquering it’s non-republic-aligned neighbors, and having significant industrial infrastructure built by capitalists from the Republic.


Other Clans
Many other clans and peoples exist within the heart of Krubaja. Some aligned with the Iu, some converted to the religion of the Ossed, and others played host to militants of AIRPAD. With the collapse of the once thought unbreakable Central Krubajan Kingdom, which stood for 800 years, the region is locked into intense conflict. It will take much to reunify it.




Ice Cave Tribes
There are no formal organized entities in the Ice Caves, save for the Krujëstar League. The region otherwise is only host to migratory tribes and peoples. They follow a host of religions and have many cultures. The northern ice cave tribes are natively related to the Krubajan clans, and are split between the religions of Zdrolan and Ochitus. Those in the west are similar but only follow the Möng religion. The east is broadly unpopulated save for some tribes similar to those in the west. The tribes of the southern ice caves, the harshest region, plays host to more tribes of Krubajan origin and of Möng religion, but also to some few tribes related to the Nakara people of Nara-Yintai, and who follow their religion as well, having migrated upwards.


Region Economy
The deep caves of Krubaja are host to many rare minerals and materials. While traditionally exploited by the Central Krubajan Kingdom for export to Iu, the recent collapse has led to a relative halt in economic productivity, a major cause for the Republic to colonize the region and take it into their own control.


Colonial Exploitation
The expansion of the Republic of Iu into the region has led to the development of industrial mining. Raw materials mined by barely paid Krubaja workers are shipped up to Iu to be made into industrial products, which are then sold back down to the people of Krubaja. Vast oil reserves can also be found within the mountain, with pipes running through the caves to fuel industrial expansion in the lands above.


The Krujëstar Path
Smuggler bands, originating from Kurtabardh call the ice sheet place their home too, trading goods between Kurtabardh and Krubaja to avoid the harsh taxes that the Suyuchua impose on the Summit Road. 


The economy in the ice sheets here has thus grown to an extent that some manner of organized society has been established in the easiest of ice caves to traverse, and independent towns and even cities have popped up along the trade route. 


It is through the Krujëstar Path that many of the clans in conflict with the Republic of Iu get their arms and goods from, the Republic only trading with those clans aligned to them. 


Region Culture and Society
Holidays
The holidays in this region largely correspond to the religions. Religion in this region is divided between Ossed Möng, Outer Möng, with a minority believing in the religion of the Nakara.  


The Seven Holidays
Ossed Möng and Outer Möng believers celebrate the seven holidays corresponding to the 7 gods of the Möng religion.


Aparahat Day
Celebrated by the Ossed people, Aparahat Day, Aparahat meaning “exile” in the Ossed language, honors the dead of the exile of the Ossed people down the world-wound, approximately 170 years ago. It is primary celebrated by those ethnic descendants of those exiled. In the broader Ossed Möng community, it is a minor holiday at most. 


Burial Rites
Believers in the predominant Outer Möng of this layer “give” their kinsmen back to the planet by throwing them down ravines once they die.  These sometimes end up in the caves of the Nakara beneath them, much to their chagrin, as many a Krubajan plague has spread to the Nakara by this practice.


The Ossed, and the Ossed Möng by contrast typically bury their dead in the walls of the mountain, or the ground where possible. It is said that by returning these corpses to the mountain, they become a direct part of it, turning to stone over the course of years. 


Marriage Customs
Marriage is also clan-based. Society is patriarchal and practices bride kidnapping AND husband kidnapping. 
[TODO]
Art
Battle scenes, think Mexican Muralism but with warfare instead of cultural murals. Warfare all the way down. Paints used are from mortar-and-pestle materials ground down. Oranges are common due to the nature of the rocks in the area, as well as blues and yellows.
Language
South Caucasian in inspiration, the dominant ethnic group are descendants of a now long-extinct valley group that migrated downwards long ago. Otherwise, minor languages include speakers of a Burmese sounding Nakara language, descendants of those from the deep cave who have migrated upwards into the great cave sheet in search of a better life, as well as the Ossed, speakers of a language similar to Azerbijani, who originally inhabited the peak of the mountain but have since been expelled downwards by the Coyacuchi. 


The Ossed Language, one should note, was not the native first language of those living on the summit, but a liturgical language commonly spoke by the wider population in addition to its use by the large clergy and religous military orders who formed the majority of those thrown down the world-wound.


Curiously, in the Tabasaran language, the word “aghmosavleti”, meaning “east”, can also refer to an “upwards” direction, as in, those on the mountain located above them, depending on the context. Thus, the Taba, located on the eastern edge of the large central cave, refer to those above them as “easterners”. If one were to follow the natural caves near this region, one would find this true, as heading east into them leads directly up to Suyua.


Fashion and Dress
Unusually modern, the people of Krubaja largely dress in modified clothes dating to the era of the Central Krubajan Kingdom, which attempted industrialization and modernization after the success of the Isoyu in doing the same. Wearing similar clothing to the present Isoyu dress, while technology here has since regressed due to war and conflict, fashion has not. Iu exported industrial textiles and fabrics have outcompeted local textile mills, which were primitive and slow at producing such modern clothing. This has caused, to say the least, discontentment among the natives of the region. 
Architecture
Stout and fortified. Utilitarian. Not as much wood as the upper layers, so mostly stone constructions. Large amounts of wood in buildings is a status symbol. Temples and Palaces contain holes in the ceiling where sunlight can be let in.
Deep Cave - Nara-Yintai Layer
Names: Nara-Yintai (Nakara, Imperial), Mitskivesha (Isoyu)
This “Region” is a collection of the deepest caves in the world, possibly old lava tubes & ice holes that have not seen warmth in eons. There are no meaningful divisions or differentiations - it is one, gigantic sprawl. 


There are no organized societies this deep in the earth. Each temple city, typically no bigger than a couple tens of thousands of residents commands the loyalty of those residing in them, and the caves around them. The region otherwise is largely unorganized, with no large “states” or political entities existing. The bowels of the great mountain rarely receive sunlight and those born there rarely venture upwards- not from lack of desire to ascend, but its impossibility.


Those who live here are called Naraka in their own tongue, Those Who Cling To Life. Their society is structured around temple cities that are in the few habitable pockets this deep. They are religious fundamentalists. 


Region Situations
Perpetual Starvation
There is nearly no arable land down here. Food is grown as mushrooms in caves, hunted, or stolen from the layers above. Plants that do grow down here are sometimes edible, and the fish are not very nutritious where they can be found. Anyone who can offer them food has their loyalty; society here is centered around the temples in a way that means food = power more so than other societies.


Disease Incubation
This far down, the intense cold of the surface dissipates and the temperature becomes more equal. Because of this, the ridges into which the above-cultures throw their many corpses and enemies down have bottom points that are sometimes strangely warm. This has led to a thriving area of microbiota that regularly mutates into extremely deadly plagues that cull the lower populations regularly. 


Sometimes, one of these plagues makes it to the surface proper. If any conqueror is not careful, the plagues down here can spread to the surface.


Last Tendrils of Iu
Iu’s expansion project occasionally finds its way down into the depths. There’s only one temple-city, not a major one and one nearest to the top, that is under their direct control. Iu sends the criminals, the cruel, and the failures in their military to the depths to “conquer.” they mostly just die down here. Near one of the deepest caves of Nara-Yintai, an Iu secret military base has constructed a gigantic mech in the form of an “Ice-Worm”, inspired by an old Nakara myth. 


Region Divisions
The Nara-Yintai Cities
Intensely conservative, intensely autocratic, and operates as small command economies run out of the temple-cities.  


There is a rumored lost city at the bottom of the world, older than the ice sheets at the very bottom of this region where you can see the ground as it once was. It definitely does-doesn't-always-never exists. 




Region Economy
Run as command economies, the cities of Nara-Yintai are collectivist out of necessity, survival this deep in the earth requires that all meals, clothing, and all else are accounted for. TherSe is no room for error, as a city missing but one week of raiding can mean life or death for thousands.


Relic Trade
The Nakara make expeditions down into the deep, in search of artifacts and relics of a bygone era. A party of a dozen leaves their city in search of treasure, and comes back with half missing. Those that make it back seem sickly and broken, but they return with strange technologies, gadgets, and wonders from the depths, dated to civilizations eons past, some seemingly predating the Nakara themselves. Rarely of little use to the Nakara themselves, these relics are sold far and wide across the world to the rich and powerful.


Naraka Culture and Society
Holidays
Festival of Soul Rekindling (the Rekindling)
Once a year, a young boy is picked to brave the depths of the caves alone, sent with a single torch to a deep cavern near the center of Mount Ochitus where a river of magma resides. The boy is tasked with lighting the torch and bringing it to the settlement of Tashilhunpo. From there, lanterns are lit from this initial flame, those lanterns used to light more. Flames spread throughout the region and the caves are briefly lit up.


Day of the Worm
A relatively minor holiday, the Day of the Worm is celebrated by some Nakara cities in the lower parts of the ice sheets, venerating the supposed giant ice worms that carved out the cave sheets. Some say that on rare occasions, one can see one of these worms still crawling around, albeit, more mechanical in appearance…


The Three Holidays
The Nakara People, following a more basal version of the other religions of the mountain, venerate only three gods (Huyuno, Urak’aya, and Aquaylla). Indeed, Nakara religion in general can be seen as a more “primitive” (though in many ways more advanced) version of the Möng religion, though the two are considered separate, splitting 3500 years ago. The Möng religion with it’s seven gods, originated with a Nakara prophe, who was expelled from his city due to the “heresy” he wrote. It would be this prophet, then, which converted the Matinoria, who had since occupied the rest of the mountain, to the Möng religion which is dominant to this day. 
Burial Rites
They throw folks in the really deep part. There is a big pile of bones and bodies at the bottom of a supposedly bottomless pit.


Curiously, this burial procedure of throwing bodies down ravines which began originally as a practical method of disposal of bodies in Nara-Yintai, later spread upwards through Ochitus with the spread of the Möng religion, where the Great Prophet argued that the soul either fell with the body or rose. 


Marriage Customs
Rabidly monogamous and patriarchal, women in Nakara society lack the privileges of their male counterparts. 


Art
Visual arts are strictly taboo in Nakara culture. A lack of natural light sources caused Nakara society to turn away from it as wasteful and sinful. Furthermore, an iconoclastic movement popular around 700 years ago destroyed much of the art that existed prior in this region in a spat of religious fervor, though, some say rare instances of older art can still be found hidden in the deep, an eccentric art collector living a hermit life in a deep cave keeping a vast collection. Instead, art in Nara-Yintai is focused around the production of “sound art”. Much of this art is produced in as music, but more abstract sound art or just spoken art is also common. The music that is produced is typically vocal, featuring few instruments. Chanting echoing throughout the deep can be heard on the approaches to Nakara cities. 
Language
Tibetan in inspiration, speakers of the Nakara language groups once populated the entire mountain, and the region around it. The Nakara, long genetically isolated due to their position at the bottom of the world, can trace their history and religion back to the very first human settlement of the Mons Ochitus, 66000 years ago. 


The Nakara settled the region when the original Mons Ochitus hotspot, similar to other regions of the planet, was once volcanically active. This kept the mountain and the surrounding terrain (now present to the cave ice sheet) from encroachment by the world Ice Sheet. However, when Geothermal activity ceased, 13000 years ago, the region now present to the Cave Ice, quickly cooled. The region, typically foggy, quickly froze over, as the persistent clouds froze the foothills of the mountain and lowlands into a spongy ice sheet. This ice sheet, unstable, and facing snow, would lead to the higher levels collapsing into the lower, causing the lower Cave Ice to be much denser than the higher Cave Ice. This lead to the upper regions preserving their sponge like structure, with large voids of air in between the ice (think Mann’s planet from Interstellar)., and the lower regions being mostly solid ice with smaller caves carving through it, now insulated from any snowfall or collapses above that could fill them. The rest of Mons Ochitus, was too elevated for any ice to cover it, and thus remained intact. Mons Ochitus is then, the only region on the planet other than the Spiked Shelf in Istrelka with a higher elevation than the surrounding ice sheet, the Equatorial warm band, surrounded north and south by ice, and the northern and southern hotspots being formed from geothermal activity which prevents the encroachment of the world Ice Sheet there.


Later migrations originating in Zdrolan, moving through the ice canyon that would later become the Summit Road, during a time when it was warmer and much wider led to the arrival of the Matinoria people approximately 11000 years ago, who would become the Isoyu, the Vras Kamra, Ossed, Atuls, and most of the other peoples of the Suyua and Krubaja layers. This ultimately relegated the Nakara to the deepest caves of the region. 


Fashion and Dress
Plant fibers akin to seaweed are found deep in the caves near naturally occurring aquifers. These are woven into long robe-like garments that cover the whole body. Though being underground means that the temperature is more stable, the Naraka still have a cultural taboo on nudity.


Architecture
What Naraka architecture does exist is built in the style of religious stone fortifications- temples that feature strong gates, living quarters, and a citadel. This is due to resource (specifically food) scarcity in the depths leading to an abundance of banditry.




---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------






An Isoyu child’s interpretation of Mons Ochitus.
  















A political map of the above ground regions of the Mountain, showing only notable minor tribes.