Region 3: Karus
Soaring mountains, deep dark boreal forests that span the depth and length of its hot-zones, and unsettling cracks and fissures in the great ice-wastes of its far north defines Karus. It's namesake is the Karusi Mountain Range that creates the climactic conditions for the great hotspot-forests to grow as strong and as dense as they have. Three great taiga forest-hotspots lie just north of the mountain range.
As one gets farther from the low-lying forests they reach the Broken Habitable Spot, a frozen over mountain range of shocking natural beauty due to it being the terminus & starting point for many jagged canyons that pierce deep into the ice sheet. Just before the Long Dark began and the Industrial Revolution froze the world’s progress in place, expeditionary teams of geologists identified the telltale signs of precious metals in the walls of these canyons, but the passes that led here were frozen over by the Long Dark before ant exploitation could occur. 
Togran’s Ice Canyon Complex and the False Refuge/The Scar have detailed sections below.
The region’s largest city and the capital of the Rex Talorumis (native text: the Yūlet of Talor) is the industrial megacity of Talorum, the most densely populated area on Ledus Banum. It is the seat of the strange merchant-monarch known as the Great Yūl of Talor and has many factories, greenhouses, and sawmills that turn the natural bounty of the far north into the metallic cities that roam the Great Snow Sea and provide the warmth that is so vital to the legitimacy of the Yūls. 


Geographic features
The Spruce Triplets (mountain-facing hotspots)
Three great holes in the world-sheet are formed by warm air being siphoned into low lying regions by the imposing Karusi Mountains. Here have long stood extremely thick old-growth boreal forests of spruce & pine trees that have provided warmth for many generations of humans and hiding places for those fleeing the might of the Yūl. 
The westmost hotspot is Havni, generally regarded to be the least habitable. It has long been a purely extractive holding that changes hands frequently during wars and is subject to nomad raids and local tribesmen trying to keep more industrial powers out of their homes.
The center hotspot is the largest and is called the Talor Basin. It is one of the incubators of humanity on Ledus Banum, and archeologists who head into the deeper parts of its forests regularly discover ancient ruins and artifacts of cultures long frozen. It is the personal holding of the Yūlet of Talor and is their secondary power base beyond the great city itself, and supplies many of the raw materials necessary to keep Talorum’s foundries churning. It's old growth forests are the most used up, though there are still many hundreds of years of trees worth of lumber to get through at the current pace.
The Southeastern hotspot is Yulis, home of the first Yūls to take that title. It hosts major iron deposits and was the first place in Karis to develop bronze weaponry. The first Yūls organized armies of spearmen that conquered the old agricultural cities of the Talor Basin before being thrown back. The people here are independent minded and are more inclined towards warfare than their neighbors. 


The Far Hotspot, Yon
The site of a frozen over mountain range with deep valleys, Yon is a craggy and hard to navigate area with a few habitable zones that host some of the harshest societies on the planet. To survive here is to be extremely hardy. The inhabitants here have remained politically independent but keep up a good trading relationship with Talorum- Yon’s mines produce extremely rare metals and brutal, bloody gods that live in the deep bowels of their mountains and demand sacrifice for their protection in the bloody depths of the world. Yon produces amazing mountain navigators.


Togran’s Ice Canyon Complex
Only recently cataloged due to the end of the Long Dark, the ICC is a network of underground rivers that should be miles below the world-sheet and free flowing but are, for some strange reason, exposed to the freezing air of the north and bare to the sky. These exposed rivers have cut deep, frozen gashes into the world-sheet that are incredibly deadly to navigate.


The False Refuge / The Scar
This area is barely surveyed. during the daytime in the summer the False Refuge is a sunny, verdant cradle of flower-fields and prairie entirely devoid of insect, mammal, or any sound. If one stays too long they hear the wind- by that time, it is too late. Blizzards crash through the False Refuge and submerge the fields with terrifying speed, smothering everything there in minutes. The next day the clouds part and the sun burns away the snow and the shockingly hardy flowers re-emerge. Weather theorists speculate that the atmosphere of Ledus Banum is extremely weak in this area, leading to sunlight being more intense. The world reacts to this as if it is a sin and sends crushing ice storms to end the hubris of false-summer with extreme prejudice. Due to the deadly nature of the climate here very little actual research has been done about the flora or fauna, and most religions in the area have deep seated taboos about entering the area- it is said to be the home of the gods.
Political Organizations & Demography
Yūlet of Talor / Rex Talorum
“Sing, child of the world-blood! Sing boldly that warmth may flood over your people and the burning heart of the mountains will beat forever and bend the land to your will. The heart-rhythm of Ledus testifies your deeds. Sing!”
-Ninth canticle of the Worldheart


Karus has one heart and one true Yūl, the children of the world-blood that rule the great mountain city of Talorum. In the far past a merchant known to myth as Huraham  was expelled from the eastern city of Zisban by its king who was jealous of his singing ability. Huraham fled west as the king’s men tried to hunt and kill him. they nearly did under Huraham began listening to the winds that coursed through the Karusi Mountains. That song led him to the one year-round passage through the mountains between the Talor Basin and into the Great Snow Sea, where a collection of his followers and some nomadic allies fought of the men of the king of Zisban at a mountain holdfast called Karus Talorum (rough translation is ribcage of the world-heart). There Huraham established his hearth and called himself the First Yūl, progenitor of the House of Huraham. 


This grew into a trading post around an abundance of naturally occuring hot springs. As mining technology advanced, it built forges, tall walls, and cut paths through the mountains into nearby valleys. A series of seven prophets appeared and their teachings formed the monotheistic Cult of the Worldheart with its religious seat being depeer in the mountains to Talorum’s north (with the only pass to the city cutting through the capital, of course). Control of the only year round trade route between two world regions, their origin, and the natural resources of the area led to the Yūls becoming merchant kings that used their financial acumen and powerbase at Talorum to expand their Yūldom into the whole of the Talor basin, with appreciable holdings in other hotspots in Karus. 
Just before the industrial revolution the absolutist Yūls of the House of Huraham experienced a successful Barons’ revolt that led to significant rights for the merchant class, but gave the Yūl of Talorum almost unlimited power over the city of Talorum itself. This led to significant power for outlying merchants. At the onset of the industrial revolution, the Yūls of the House of Huraham embraced it as a way to balance the power of the merchants and turned Talorum into a heart of industry. This led to the city rapidly urbanizing. 


Because of all this and its position around Geothermal energy, Talorum and it's monarchs were able to THRIVE during the long dark. People from all over Karus fled here and the city grew into the millions while the other great cities of the world shriveled and died.


The Yūlet of Talor directly pre-conquest is a state with nominal control over most of Karus, but in practice the only part of the region that matters to it is Talorum and the raw materials needed to fuel its insatiable growth. It is a Parliamentary state with an autocratic merchant-monarch.


Minor Yūlets
Old states outside of the Talor Basin conquered by the Yūlet of Talor were left to govern themselves and pay hefty tribute. There are a ton of Huraham cousins and hangers-on floating around and these were usually married into the local nobility, so there are scattered Yūls around Karus that are distantly related to the main line in Talorum. There is even a small Yūlet in the far hotspot of Yon. 
Forest Tribes
The forests are dense and full of adapted life, including many tribesmen who avoid the main roads that Talorum cares so much about. There are millions of tribesmen in the forests and the Yūlets regularly abduct them to work in the factories. 
Outer Tribes
There are rumors of tribes out in the icy wastes that are distant cousins of those in the great snow sea, but these are obviously just rumors. 
Notable Locations
Talorum, Ribcage of the Burning World-Heart
Situated on the only year-round clear mountain pass between the Great Snow Sea and the Talor Basin, Talorum is a city of 25 million souls that provides the industrial might, trade acumen, and political know-how necessary to keep a city on the edge of civilization alive.
It is built into the Karus mountain range, with most of the population living in natural or man-made cave cities underneath the protective layers of rock that keep the worst of the cold out. At ground level lie several large industrial gantries wherein nomadic cities that scour the Great Snow Sea are built and/or retrofitted.
It is supplied by several massive Geothermal power plants that run the factories that fund the Yūlet’s power and the expansion of the great city. They are stout buildings akin to giant brick turtles that are scattered about. 
Talorum hosts the Huraham Palace, home of the Great Yūl and their gigantic family.