Tab 1
Region 8 – Istrelka[a]
Alternate names: Ginstrelikos (Crinia), Gennistora (Imperial)
  Rev stuff
* Population
   * 105 Million
* Religious Breakdown
   * Settled peoples practice an Idiosyncratic Merouldism, while the natives are all Wanderers.
* Manufactured/Natural Resources
   * Basically they have marble on land, and that’s it. The saltwater lakes have like giant armored dunkleosteus fish which are valued for their extremely tough bone.
* Landmarks
   * The lakes are the main landmarks here, and the voidcold is a big big thing to stay away from. 
* Infrastructure
   * VERY poor, this is like the frontier.
* Cultural reminiscence
   * Stavinia is very weird, so these guys would not fit in very well with the Empire. They have a general law-and-order and imperialist society, but otherwise, the Stavinians are really radical and discriminatory that doesn’t really fit with the Empire.
Southern Istrelka | Stavinia
Alternate names: Stavia (Imperial)
Encompassing the snowy steppes of the Spiked Shelf, the adjacent green-lands to its north, and the ice-areas bordering Crinia and Siadset, Stavinia is the most populated area of Istrelka. Geographically speaking, the area as a whole is a land of hills and crags, especially so in the green areas at the foot of the mountainous Spiked Shelf. Being composed of both a mix of Wanderer natives and the descendants of southern colonists, the overall demographics of Stavinia resemble that of Siadset, though Stavinia is nowhere near as geographically-segregated as their eastern neighbor. From this, tensions between raiding natives and settlers are recognizable in both regions.
Due to a lack of natural resources and a lack of proximity to major trade routes, Istrelka in general is known as a backwater, unremarkable in terms of cultural or economic achievement. However, its subregion of Stavinia is considered to be the most ‘civilized’ area, being composed of a contiguous line of settlements from Crinians who still maintain some ties to the homeland, and widely seen as an extension of the Crinian cultural world. Originally populated by a collection of non-Wanderer tribes, Crinian incursions into the area, which corresponded both with the migration of outside imperial populations (usually ex-soldiers promised land) and an aggressive Crinianization campaign of the native population.
In this respect, the culture of Stavinia today is overwhelmingly Crinian and overwhelmingly Dutsasian, holding a narrative of imperial conquest over the pagan forces of evil, the settlements being bastions of light in a land of darkness. Suffice to say, this does not translate to very good relations with their native Wanderer neighbors who reside in the icy areas further north. Yet, the Stavinians are notable in the extent that their rhetoric also strains relations with the states in Crinia proper, including those that directly claim descent from the Empire. Holding that the Empire failed not only due to the external threat of hordes of savage barbarians despoiling the land, but also from hedonistic, self-serving elites who had sold out the light for their own personal fortunes. In the present-day, the Stavinians will often accuse those of the homeland as those responsible for the Empire’s collapse by their own failure to sufficiently defend it, and that the ideas of Crinia they purport are degenerated ones. While most Stavinians do not explicitly claim that their home is the sole surviving bastion of a ‘true’ Crinia, the implication carries through nonetheless, and most in Crinia proper regard the settlers as an unruly annoyance. Being sent as a diplomatic officer to the Stavinian Republic, though on paper a great way to represent one’s country, is effectively a punishment, often forced upon political opponents to get them away from the capital and to prevent them from making any schemes.
Stavinia | The Republic[b]
To an outside viewer, it would seem paradoxical that the traditionalist Stavinians (who so often regard themselves as members of a ‘pure’ Crinia) would adopt a republican system, rejecting the feudal hierarchy so intrinsic to their Crinian heritage. Yet a closer examination into the Stavinian Republic reveals that this isn’t the result of some liberal-democratic ideal shared with the Stavinians, but an idiosyncratic manner of organizing political power in the wake of the Empire’s collapse in honor of the dead Tyrant.
Establishing their own monarchy would have been tantamount to treason — an unforgivable act of hubris and betrayal. Aligning with one of the southern pretender states was equally unthinkable. Given the choices of dishonoring the Tyrant by seeking to replace them with a Stavinian monarchy, betraying their legacy by aligning with one of the pretender states, or to let their sacrifice be in vain by permitting their people to descend into lawlessness, did Stavinians establish the Republic. In other words, rather than as a reaction to despotic tyranny, the Republic is a reaction against treasonous anarchy, and its politics very much reflect these origins.
Militant, xenophobic, and unapologetically imperialist, the Republic is reviled by the Wanderer natives who are so often the targets of Stavinian expeditions into their territory. Yet, the Stavinians care not for their scorn, for they see themselves as pioneers who had tamed the hills and maintained Crinian purity when all others failed, destined by Dutsas herself to let Her light be known throughout the land.
Politics
At the heart of the Stavinian Republic’s governance lies the State Council, a 50-member assembly of Stavinia’s political leaders. While the Council is, in theory, an open body accessible to any citizen, in practice, it operates as a near-exclusive domain of the Stavinian elite. Fire-and-brimstone preachers, wealthy industrialists, and cutthroat political operators who have carved out powerful fiefdoms of influence may all be found in the Council. Many magistrates or high-officials of the Republic, once they complete their duties, often find themselves shoed-in to the Council, while other practices such as effectively buying a seat or handing it over to a son are not uncommon. The oligarchy is the true architect of the Republic's policies, shaping nearly every aspect of political life in Stavinia.
The head of the Council, and by extension the effective leader of the Republic, is the Archkeeper, a position with origins as a colonial officer from the Crinian heartland to govern the region in the Tyrant’s name. Selection is a very intense, and sometimes bloody (as political gangs will often attack each other, while their political sponsors will deny using such tactics), affair in the Council’s disagreements, but once a suitable candidate is found, they are appointed in a highly-orchestrated process designed to maintain the appearance of unity and the ideals of arch-Crinian authority. The Archkeeper is the subject of near-religious veneration who is said to be able to, by force of will, keep the darkness at bay as a virtuous warrior of Dutsas. This display also is a cynical device to channel the emotions of the broader public into their ‘protector’ and to distract from the fact that, quite generally, the Republic cares little for its ordinary citizens. Once selected, the Archkeeper is generally there for a lengthy term of twenty-years, at the end of which the Council shall re-convene and either suggest a successor or to endorse another term for the Archkeeper. In practical terms, however, the latter always occurs, and it is only in the rare case that the incumbent shows signs of betraying the very elite that has placed him in power would the Council ever force them to step down. There has yet to be an instance in Stavinia’s history where any confrontation between the Archkeeper and the Council would see such a situation occur. In terms of power, the Archkeeper has the ability to act decisively without need for deliberation, having already secured the Council’s general approval of governance with their selection. In this sense, the Archkeeper has significant power to implement policy and conduct diplomacy to his will, so long as there is no wide disapproval as expressed by the Council.
Though not an actual organized political institution or even party, the Empire-in-Waiting threads the line being a political philosophy or a movement. In line with mainstream opinion of the Crinians, the Stavinians hold despite the current state of affairs of Crinian decline, the Empire is still alive in some form, and through the power of their rightness and virtue, such ways will eventually come to prominence once more. Where divergences occur, however, is that the Stavinian-specific Empire-in-Waiting refers to a general concept in which there is a pressing, near-apocalyptic need for a sense of spiritual and cultural ‘rebirth’ in the face of hedonism bringing both the Tyrant’s line and dooming the Empire to its current state of decay. Encompassing a hyper-militaristic mentality, the Empire-in-Waiting concept argues that the Empire is still alive (and heavily-implied to be living in Stavinia), but that it is fundamentally at war with all manner of forces that seeks to corrupt it into something that no longer resembles Dutsasian goodness or to destroy it entirely. While the concept has not seen fruit outside Stavinia, to the relief of many Churches in Crinia proper who have a strained relationship with the idea, the Empire-in-Waiting dominates political discourse in Stavinia, establishing a political class that is simultaneously isolationist (not wanting to engage with and be corrupted by the ‘degenerate’ people who have abandoned the Empire or never even embraced it) and imperialistic (very much wanting to bring the light of the Empire by sword in order to secure it from its enemies).
Geography & The Territories
For the most part, the Stavinians are centered in the hilly green areas where most of their settlements lie. While certainly not a region that is very rich in resources, the rocky crags provide a perfect environment from which the Stavinians can fortify their control and defend against enemy armies or raiding bands of Wanderers. While in other cases — most notably the Istral League in Siadset that Stavinia is often compared against — this band of settlement corresponds with a major artery of international overland trade, no such thing exists in isolated Istrelka, for it is no crossroads between major trading states. By global standards, the towns of the Republic are generally poor, relying on subsistence farming, small-scale mining, and war-loot from the Wanderer natives in the surrounding area.
Although the icy territory that lies between it and the Stavinian heartland is largely uninhabited, the Republic also owns the territory surrounding Lake Peshti to its east, having won the territory after a military confrontation against the bordering Archduchy of Draszen. The significance of this cannot be overstated, as To this day, Draszen still claims Lake Peshti as its own, while the Republic has further designs in capturing the rest of the Saltwater Lakes still under Archduchy control, viewing this as both a geopolitical necessity and a religious imperative.
Yet the most important geographic feature of Stavinia’s territory is its central Lake Vezhad, around which most of the Republic’s population resides. Warmed significantly by subsurface geothermal activity, the lake emanates a gentle warmth — a phenomenon that has made it a focal point of life, faith, and sustenance in Stavinia.


Stavinia | Economy
Agriculture
Despite the rocky terrain of Stavinia, it is still possible to grow food in this region, and the Stavinian diet is one that is much more diverse than their comrades in the Istran League, far to the east. Subsistence farming generally occupies much of the time for Stavinia’s lower-class population, often growing hardy root vegetables and cold-tolerant grains that are somehow able to grow in the poor soil. While these crops are generally bland, Stavinia can proudly boast that it need not rely on the import of food to feed its population, and that it is able to feed its armies as well.
In addition, sheep and goats are the primary livestock in the Republic, grazing on the sparse grasses in the hills. While some can be raised for their wool and meat, most often they are kept around for their milk, which is usually processed into different kinds of cheeses. However, whether by some feature of the environment or by the limited diet of their livestock, these cheeses are invariably described as sour, and so they are primarily for consumption amongst Stavinians rather than possible export.
The reason for the matter of subsistence farming is largely to do with the frequent harsh winters of the north, as well as the lack of agricultural implements (some villages, due to a lack of steel, even lack a single plow for dozens of fields). Although some tools are able to be imported from elsewhere, most advanced technologies are beyond the reach of the Stavinians, who do not have access to resources of fuel or metal to even repair them, in the likely case that they break down in the area’s harsh conditions.


Marble


The Voidcold | The Forbidden 
For as long as anyone has known, far in the north lies the dreaded Voidcold (Stavinish: Pustkholod, also referred to as the Semlia Zhelaniy. Its origins are the subjects of many myths in the cultures of the surrounding peoples, but the most popular theory is that a large detonation (likely from a meteorite) unleashed particles of an underground Ordinium deposit into the air, which somehow reacted in such a way so as to form a ‘shield’ that blocks all light from entering the affected zone. 
The Voidcold’s growth pattern according to myths and oral histories is contested. Some groups believe that the Voidcold initially started as a single speck on the ice sheet born from an ancient sin that will continue to expand until it consumes the entirety of Tundra. Others contest that it initially covered the entire planet and the present Voidcold is merely a remnant from the war between Dutsas and the Gods, doomed to completely fade from the planet so long as all are pious. Measurements are inconclusive, but demonstrate that the Voidcold has simultaneously shrunken and expanded in the past.  
It is difficult to determine what exactly is true about the Voidcold. Though it certainly exists and has some of the properties ascribed to it, it has more power as a symbolic idea than as an actual place. Each culture has slightly (or wildly) varying views on the Voidcold, but consistent throughout is that none who dare to enter it return the same, if they return at all. It is the source of madmen and prophets, of singing beasts and terrible miracles, of a cold that is colder than the void. 


[a]TLDR: Get apartheid South Africa and communist Albania and mix them together and you get the Crinian settlers in the south + green areas. Wanderer nomads everywhere else.
[b]I want players to look at the name and say: "oh wow wholesome democracy friends yay!!!"


Before learning that, oh no, it turns out these guys are one mustache twirl away from being a James Bond villain.