Sanghieu


Rev Requests:

1. Population of ~187 Million
2. Majority Secular / Legacies, minority following Cirinian religion, scatterred others
3. Significant industry, lots of normal metals, strong artisan culture 
4. The Mouth is a giant layered city of rusted steel, the Menshai mountains in the center are known to be pretty, and then The Snake and The River
5. Quite good in the west, poor in the east
6. Somewhat, the political structure is similar but the secular ideas are a head trip.




i


  


Situations:
The Serpent and the River
Sanghieu is defined by nothing if not its isolation. Charitably reading the map, there are perhaps 2 ways to enter the region. One is a clear path in the west, called the river. Clear is a strong term, however. The path is narrow, and often snowed over. There is little food to speak of in the shadow of tall cliffs, and so travel is largely relegated to the brief flirtations the region has with summer. Nevertheless, these brief travel seasons see floods of caravaneers, immigrants, and tourists pass through the river; a period that often brings inundations of migrants to the heavily urbanized west of the region.


The Serpent is the other path, this one far more treacherous but open year round. This path sees travelers passing under the ice, through ancient water eroded passageways deep within the glacier. Being shielded from the elements, this path is immune to the vagaries of winter; and thus sees a rise in traffic as the western traveling season ends. The path itself is dangerous, it is unstable, slow to traverse, monstrously dark in places, and completely void of sustenance. It takes well over a month to traverse, and travellers must pack ALL the food they need for their journey beforehand. Nevertheless, the Serpent has seen rapid development in recent decades, with paths now marked and the occasional waystation prepared for weary travellers. 
  
        These twin paths are the main mechanism by which the central government has historically exercised control over the region. Imagine a village chief who rules over the only tap in the village. By controlling the tap, who is allowed to draw from it, how much is allowed in, and the taxes that must be paid to access it, he gains great coercive power over the entire village. So too is it with the royal family, who have long leveraged their position at the Mouth of the River to exercise control over the entire region.
 Antarctica under hotsell the ice 
Political Structure and Divisions:
        Due to its isolation, Sanghieu has historically enjoyed less intercine division than many of its contemporary regions. It is ruled over by one formal state, and one family within the state. Family is a deliberate term here, while power does nominally pass through a single line of succession, from father to son, the immediate siblings of the Monarch are awarded much more power than is typical for historical monarchies. This sharing of power is borne out of cultural practice, which I detail in a later section, but suffice to say that this system has led to an extraordinarily incongruous experience of government in the modern day.


Sanghieu is a monarchy in decay. Because of this power-sharing, and the fiefdoms of power it encourages, the Monarch himself holds little direct power outside of the Mouth of the River. His sisters, brothers, and the occasional cousin control the countryside and cities that lie beyond. At least, that’s how it used to go. In modern Sanghieu, which has seen successive waves of industrialization, uneven liberalization, and urbanization, much of this power is now being concentrated in imperial bureaucrats, wealthy tycoons, and scheming generals.


The divisions, then, are not founded in something as meaningful as geography, or nationality. They are the fluctuating divisions of elites simultaneously set against the old, the new, each other, and themselves. Every city is at odds with every garrison. Every garrison is arrayed against power hungry bureaucratic modernizers. Every appratchnik dreams of casting down the petty-fiefdoms of the Imperial siblings. The Imperial siblings long to take the throne from the Emperor. And the Emperor longs to crush the capitalists in the cities beneath his boot. So it goes.

Economy:
In general, the economy is split between large conglomerates, small companies, and smaller artisans. The name of the game here, of course, is legacy. Certain legacies are so well-regarded and have generated such massive resources over time that they can’t help but consolidate into large, family owned corporations. Something akin to the Japanese Zaibatsus. These large corporations have become much more common in recent decades, and have become part and parcel of political culture in Sanghieu. Every family worth something in politics comes attached with one at this point. Filling in the gaps between these groups are smaller, more dynamic corporations in urban areas, which have grown more prominent following slow moves towards liberalization in recent years, as well as local artisan legacies. While these artisans tend to hold a lot of sway in rural areas, as well as a significant chunk of the GDP, their size means they struggle to summon much political influence. 

Resource wise, the valley often struggles to grow food, and as such relies on trade from Tawaghet to make up for its crop shortfalls. It is rich with minerals, however, and boasts extremely strong manufacturing and crafting sectors. It also is one of the largest producers of coal on the planet. Sanghieu has very little ordinium. 

Legacies and Religion
The people of Sanghieu are somewhat unique in that they are, by and large, atheistic. There is no tradition of religion in this region, or even spirituality beyond the vaguest notion. The notion is rather silly to many of them, not because it’s absurd, but because it wasn’t something to ever really be considered.

        Instead of religion, a unique secular cultural practice has grown up in its stead. Cultivation. Cultivation, despite its resemblance to certain Chinese literary genres, is not about improving oneself for the sake of being better, or pushing past mystica limits. Cultivation is about legacy, and about immortality through collective memory. 

        Put simply, cultivation is the act of improving your skills, achieving great feats, and earning public acclaim so as to glorify yourself and your family. It is an honorable thing, and is through this that many in Sanghieu find purpose in their lives. To pull from some real life analogues, a great football player would be a master of cultivation; as he would have demonstrated his skill and earned a place in the collective memory for his achievements. As would a well known local business, who earns acclaim in respect in their community for their fine products and fair prices. Cultivation is not fame, or even necessarily having an impact. It’s doing something worth remembering, and in doing so, conferring great honor to yourself and your family. This goes the opposite way as well, bringing dishonor to your family through terrible deeds and grave mistakes, and thus earning a place in the history books as a fool or a brigand is much worse than being forgotten. Indeed, ritual suicide on the Japanese model is not infrequent among committed adherants of the practice, especially in rural and elite circles. 


Because this is, more than anything else, a feature of elite culture. This is not to say it isn’t practiced among the labouring classes. But by virtue of their success, the social pressure to adhere to these rules and beliefs is much higher in wealthy, military, aristocratic, and governing families.


Racism:

Sanghieu is isolated, and as such is wildly xenophobic at the best of times. There are not a ton of minorities in the region, and those that do exist in the bulk of the country largely keep their heads down because of this. The exception is the ever-dynamic west, where periodic trade caravans bring thrushes of immigrants into the region. These immigrants, derived largely from Tawaghet s pastoral population, make up a migratory underclass that sweep in and out of the cities. In the summer, many of them seek work on the caravans; they shovel snow, clear paths, transit goods, and engage in banditry. During the long and dark winters, however, they flood into the cities to seek temporary work in factories, shops, and begging. This push and pull defines race relations in the region. These pastoralists are varyingly seen as invaders, lazy, and job thieves. Nevertheless, after centuries of these migrations some ethnic enclaves do exist, especially in The Mouth, where a chinatown type area does exist. In general, imagine the race relations between the Southwestern United States and hispanic immigrants as a general model for how to imagine the region.

Architecture and Vibes:

Taisho Japan mixed with pre-war urban China and Night City. Low-rise construction, streetcars, paper lanterns in the outskirts of cities folding into giant edifices of steel and concrete the downtown, complete with old-style neon. If I had to coin a term, it would be cyber-diesel-punk. Imagine the patterning of steel in American elevated urban rail, and you get a vague idea of what the steel aesthetic I’m talking about here looks like. Fashion follows similar trends, and rural areas (which are less populated than many other regions) are straight Chinese in inspiration.


       Akaikawa City, from my dieselpunk narrative artbook TANKHEAD :  r/worldbuilding