Tab 1
         Region[a][b] 2 – Siadset
Alternate names: Saradsan (Crinia), Sarsetsia (Imperial)
  Rev stuff
* Population
   * 42 Million
* Religious Breakdown
   * The natives are mostly Wanderers, a few Kerdaghites in the elites. The settled peoples are majority Charters, but the elite has a lot of Eternals.
* Manufactured/Natural Resources
   * A ton of untapped Ordinium and minerals. The natives guard the one area of the mountains that produce sunrock, which is basically glass that explodes with fire. The settled people are fairly industrial, and produce mechanical walkers for agricultural or military use.
* Landmarks
   * There’s a lot of walking cities. The entire green area is basically the space between two cliffs above. Karusi mountains in the north, and Suelph mountains in the south.
* Infrastructure
   * Decent with the green area because of the trade routes that travel through them, but basically nothing in the snow areas.
* Cultural reminiscence
   * Although the societies in the green areas are generally republican and idolize the idea of the ‘polis’, the societies are relatively stratified (Victorian England-type stuff), and could find a place in the imperial society, in a cultural sense if not a political one.
   * The natives in the snow, however: good luck trying to integrate all the fiercely-independent tribal clans.
Vardan Siadset | Varda & Alvgost
Varda Alternative names: Faratos (Cri.), Vardia (Imp.)
Alvgost Alternative names: Alfagassos (Crn.), Algostra (Imp.)
Known geographically as Lower Siadet (for being ‘shallow’ waters of the Great Snow Sea due to its proximity to the more-temperate south), the south-eastern region now known as Vardia was once the seat of power for the Vardan Hurnast (from which the region gets its name), a large semi-republican[c] state of the united clans that emerged in the aftermath of the Crinian collapse, and eventually came to encompass the entirety of the Great Snow Sea (with the exception of Ilara). Although the Hurnast lasted decently long for a breakaway state (around fifty years), the combined pressure of the prosperous city of Ilara to the north and resurgent post-Crinian states to the south led to a series of conflicts that eventually resulted in its defeat, continually trading hands between rulers to its south.
Being separated to the west by a green stretch of land referred to as Ledzi, the land known as Alvgost or as Upper Siadset shares generally the same culture as Varda, and geography is the only distinction between the two regions. While ‘Varda’ is a geographic term that refers to the southeastern region of Siadset, ‘Vardan Siadset’ is a cultural term that refers to both Alvgost and Varda.
The Vardan Siadset of today is a sorry sight. Though it has never been a particularly-rich region even during the days of the Hurnast, its decline has been precipitous since the fall centuries ago. Ilara and her allies in the roaming cities continue to exert influence through trade monopolies, while the southern states treat Vardia as a buffer zone, more useful for preventing their rivals' expansion than as a prize in itself. Yet, with the simultaneous consideration of the Vardan Wanderers as “the slightly-civilized ones” by the Dutsasians to the south, and their proximity to greener pastures, this poverty has the consequence of encouraging many a youth to seek their fortunes elsewhere, and many a Vardan may be found even in the cities of the south.        
Vardan Siadset | The Clans[d]
While the Hurnast once brought a level of organization comparable to the southerly states to the Great Snow Sea, the pro         vincial divisions no longer exist with the fall of Vardan power. And, due to the lack of any discernible features, whether from the disappearance of several of the Hurnast’s large permanent settlements or the area’s lack of geographic landmarks, both Upper and Lower Siadset are generally without formal organization, being instead populated by a host of independent, and often-feuding, clans. Even in the days of rifles and smoke, do the Vardans fight amongst each other, trying to reclaim the glories of the past.
Due to the presence of many ‘noble’ Clans surviving from the days of the Hurnast, and the building of their individual prestige and connections with the south, it is not so disorganized in Varda as it is in Alvgost further north. The most significant of Clans can trace their descent from the former lords of the Hurnast, and although they do not claim of legitimacy by descent from the Hurnast, the fact that their progenitors were honorable stewards and protectors of the Vardans in their glory years is a source of pride.
The lands of the Hurnast heartland are largely one without central authority, being instead governed by a mix of various clans who constantly vie for power over each other, with shifting alliances guided by both ancestral grudges (now reopened without the moderating presence of the Hurnast) and ambitions to secure Varda for their own people. Although several times a clan has almost reached the point of achieving hegemony, they are almost always undercut by a coalition of the other clans, and as those coalitions disintegrate, Vardan Siadset remains in a state of constant conflict, and the surrounding states can only claim nominal rule over the clans.
Although there are quite a number of other clans that are in play, and the four are by no means the only ones with power in Vardan Siadset, there are four main Clans (three in Varda and one in Alvgost) that wield influence in in area, either by virtue of their raw military power or by virtue of their alliance networks with smaller clans. Although the ‘borders’ of what territory each ‘controls’ are ill-defined (akin to polka-dots of smaller associate Clans constantly moving all over the place with only a few stationary settlements), the main Clans themselves have a distinct home area that they operate from, usually around their ancestral settlement.
Clan Ertvalan
In the northeastern part of Varda at the foot of the Karusi Mountains, lies the home of Clan Ertvalan. Formerly a simple Wanderer pilgrimage site, the discovery of Ordinium at the site of Graszad had created interest in the settlement during the days of the Hurnast, whose lords quickly invested into the city’s development, when there was still hope that the Hurnast could become a country of towns and settlements. When the Hrunast fell, and as Ilara and her sister-cities began to monopolize the Ordinium trade, Graszad diminished. Although it no longer can trade beyond the Great Snow Sea for what other resources it extracts from the mountains, the semi-industrial city still ekes out a modest existence bartering with the traveling deer herders metals and tools in exchange for food. Clan Ertvalan, which rules the town, is known as a modest but pious one, tracing their lineage from a poor shaman that a Hurnast ruler liked and named as a lord. Clan Ertvalan is generally amiable to outsiders, with members being described by one southern visitor as “more akin to a kindly wheat farmer in the south than those of a noble status”. However, their relations with their rivals are much more in-line with expectations of merciless brutality. Graszad mercenaries may be found in the employ of the many other clans feuding amongst themselves with Ertvalan firearms in their possession. Ertvalan is also notable in that a couple of their number are Kerdaghites, though most of them still latch onto the Wanderer faith.
Clan Atsetts
Between the Karusi Mountains in the north and the Suelph Mountains to the south, straight in the middle of Vardan territory, lies the site of Viorga. Not a city in a conventional sense as opposed to a gathering site, Viorga is described as a city that ebbs and flows with the tents that visiting nomads set up when they come. Here, the authority of Clan Atsetts is recognized. Although the Vardan deer herds are hardy creatures who don’t need much to survive, the ground around Viorga is particularly good due to the deposits of salt in the ground, meaning that here the snow is less thick, and that the deer get much needed nutrients and minerals from feeding here. Those of Clan Atsetts are usually described as cold and taciturn, with the blood of famous generals in their veins, with many stories of how an Atsetts lord had shown no mercy to their enemies. And yet, strangely enough, they are also a progressive sort of clan, seeing themselves as the solemn and knightly protectors of the people, frequently advocating for the end of their pains by way of restoring — at least in some form — the former Hurnast and ushering in a period of tolerance, freedom, and stability for all of Siadset.
Clan Varendt
Despite the impressive bases of power at Viorga or Graszad, however, none can compare to that of Clan Varendt and their home of Alsat. With legs towering over the surrounding plain, Alsat is the only walking city in the Great Snow Sea currently under the control of the Wanderer natives. The city came to be controlled by Varendt by conquest before the Hurnast’s establishment, its original inhabitants being driven out of the city and Varendt’s followers occupying it ever since. Although the Hurnast controlled other walking cities that were similarly taken from their original owners, nearly all of them were either destroyed or recaptured during the war that ended the Hurnast. Alsat survived by virtue of cowardice, abandoning the frontlines. As they encountered many fleeing the wars who sought to follow them, additions were added atop the legs of the city, and in the centuries that followed, Alsat has become something of a cultural mecca for both Vardan and Wanderer culture: though traditionally rural and secluded, they have found new expression in Alsat. It has grown to be one of the largest of the walking cities, and although there are several other cities like it crossing their way in the Great Snow Sea from Ledzi, Alsat stands as the brightest and largest jewel of Varda, fiercely defended by Varendt. Although easily the most powerful clan in their own right, Clan Varendt have very few allies, since the forebears of the other clans bled for the Hurnast, while Clan Varendt’s fled. The Clan Varendt of today is one that dreams romantically of the former Hurnast, and are known as patrons of the arts.
Clan Tuscra
The only main clan in Alvgost and the only one that cannot claim descent from a figure during the Hurnast, Clan Tuscra is a raiding clan that antagonizes Ilara and Ledzi to no end. While they do, in fact, engage in some peaceful activities such as trading between fellow Vardans and deer-herding, they are primarily known for their attacks on both southerners encroaching on Siadset and those who dishonor the Hurnast’s memory by not joining them in attacking the former. Their frequent attacks on Merouldist monasteries in Alvgost have caused much of that community to avoid the region and instead settle in the more-safe Varda. The clan is also the most meritocratic of the clans, and there is generally no accepted ‘noble’ family at the head, being instead more akin to a broad alliance network of the most powerful anti-southern leaders. Clan leaders generally rise in esteem through demonstrations of strength, cunning, and charisma from battle rather than birth. Betrayal amongst leadership is also a very frequent occurrence, as leaders will often try to one-up each other to demonstrate their prowess and to secure a place in history. Tuscran warriors are trained from a young age to navigate the icy steppe and fight with whatever tools are at hand, making them adaptable and resourceful in combat. This training has also instilled them an incredible (and as critics would say, foolhardy) amount of bravery, often being the only ones willing to directly raid the cities of Ledzi in the valleys below in daring attacks. They are also generally regarded as undisciplined and chaotic by the other three main clans, though Tuscra cares not for the expectations of those who have forgotten the fight.
Vardan Siadset | Economy
Deerherding
        Traditionally, there has only been one practice for the Wanderers of the northern lands, and that is pastoral deerherding - the primary way that they are able to maintain a living on lands where it is extremely difficult to reliably grow any number of crops. Northern species of deer are rather large, being about the size of a horse[e], and have evolved to survive on very little. Although their size has the effect of providing a very good source of food, the herds are hard to control with small numbers of people, and so oftentimes the clans that engage in deerherding oftentimes follow the deer as opposed to guiding them. In several cases, the herds meandering into more ‘green’ areas that are inhabited by southerners is a cause for conflict, as farmers do not have a liking for the strange people who park their herds near the fields. The introduction of faster southern horses, however, has enabled some moderately wealthy clans to be able to ‘nudge’ the movement of herds to more convenient locations.
While historically, the primary purpose of deerherding was subsistence, there is a limited market in the south for the extraordinarily large horns for artistic purposes. Although horn was used traditionally to make things such as knives, in modern times, horn is traded with any southerner willing to buy in exchange for metal tools.
While deer herding is the traditional way of life for the Vardans, those who engage in that activity as their primary enterprise are admittedly not very well-off. Despite the cultural attachment of passing on the task of following the deer from parent to child being a very present element of Vardan culture, it is increasingly seen as a way of life that offers little more than subsistence. Once the backbone of economic activity during the days of Hurnast, centuries have passed since then, and it has been displaced in significance by the industries in the cities, whether they be at home in Siadset or further to the south. Furthermore, it is not uncommon for raids to take place between clans to steal some of a clan’s deer, or for this violence to spill over to neighboring regions.
This set of circumstances has made it so that many youth in Siadset often leave their snowy home and — in some cases literally — move to greener pastures, often moving to the south for better prospects to send money to their families at home. While a few find relatively-good jobs as farmers or workers in industry, most find work in southern militaries in dangerous roles. Their presence in martial functions has also contributed to southern perceptions of the Wanderers as a violent people.
Graszad Mines and Industries
Though most of the mineral wealth of the Karusi mountains travels to Ilara, Graszad plays an important role as a rare exception. While normally Ilara and her sister-cities would be eager to crush any challenge to their monopoly, Clan Ertvalan has the fortune to be situated at the site of a very unique resource to their advantage that allows them to ward off their opponents.
Sunrock is a crystalline, glasslike mineral. When lit with a spark, sunstone violently combusts with an energy that is much more efficient than gunpowder. And it happens that Graszad is standing on top of the main deposit of it in the Karusi mountains. Aside from giving the Ertvalans an edge in weaponry, it also gives them assurances that, when the worst case scenario arrives and the enemy lies at the gates, they can always threaten to blow themselves up, and take down everyone around them as well. Although it is actually not known whether it’ll only explode the town, or be so catastrophic that it blows up the entire mountain range, no one wants to find out. In essence, no one is going to try to start a fistfight with the guy who might have a suicide vest underneath their clothes.
This security permits Graszad to extract sunrock, as well as other minerals from the mountains, and Graszad is a stronghold for Vardan industrial activity, churning out weapons and arms for their Wanderer brethren, amongst other products. While the Wanderers’ export of Karusi Ordinium has been decidedly taken by Ilara, sunrock remains firmly in their control, and it is one of the few things that they are able to hold over the other peoples. It is because of such that Clan Ertvalan jealously guards its most advanced sunrock technologies, keeping them away even from fellow Vardans.
Beyond mining and metallurgy, Graszad has also become a center of innovation for the Wanderers. The explosive potential of sunrock has led to the development of unique weapons, including specialized grenades and mining charges that are highly sought after by other clans. These weapons, while not very sophisticated, are devastatingly effective in the harsh, close-quarters combat often fought in the icy plains and mountain passes of Varda. Such explosives are also the Wanderers’ main counter to the armored forces wielded by the cities, whether used in conventional warfare as a form of primitive but effective artillery, or as an improvised trap for wandering enemy mechs. Graszad’s craftsmen have also experimented with using sunrock in controlled amounts for industrial purposes, such as clearing snow-blocked passes or breaking through layers of permafrost to expand mining operations.
Raiding
Although much of Siadset is nominally under the control of outsider states, in reality, the lack of unified order in the region makes it so that bands of what are termed by the southerners as Illastorai[f] — raiders from the snow — often enter the other regions to seize loot and materials. Most come from the Alvgost lands of Clan Tuscra, although a couple clans that pledge allegiance to the other main clans may also engage in raids from time to time. While some well-meaning persons are quick to defend the Vardans with claims that they have no other option, such arguments are derived from an ignorance of life in Vardan Siadset (usually guided by an outsider desire to ‘save’ the Vardans). Although other modes of life are not glamorous and much akin to a medieval peasant, it is still enough to make a reliable living without hunger. While the economic aspects of raiding are still significant, as it forcibly transfers the material wealth of Ledzi and the surrounding regions to the generally-poor Vardan Siadset, it is also for a sort of catharsis for any Vardan who might see the southerners as evil oppressors. 
Vardan Siadset | Culture and Society
The Clan System
Prior to the Hurnast, what might have been considered as ‘clans’ were effectively roving bands of warriors who coalesced around the leadership of a single warlord, usually by virtue of the strength of the forces under their command in a might-makes-right environment of political loyalties, without much in the way of formal titles. When the Hurnast was then established, one of the major challenges for building authority in the lands of Siadset was organizing all these warring groups of fighters into something resembling a method of governance, yet also maintaining the integrity of Vardan traditions to avoid upsetting tensions. In this manner, the Hurnast introduced ideas of governance from the south into Siadset clans, such as notions of the noble family and of the feudal ideal of guardianship.
With the fragmentation of Siadset after the fall of the Hurnast, the clan-based structure is effectively the main unit of governance in Varda and Alvgost. Clans are organized around the concept of a ‘family’ that is tied together through imaginary ties to some divine being — for instance, a local spirit or minor god of the Wanderer’s Path — making it so that membership between clans can be fluid (if a clan becomes ‘overcrowded’, a child usually goes off to join an already-existing clan) and that there is some understanding of equality between ‘fellow siblings’. Oftentimes superseding ethnic identity, one’s belonging to the ‘broader family’ of the clan is generally the most salient identity to those who reside in Varda and Alvgost. Despite this, the Wanderer taboo against fratricide does not generally apply in cases of ‘clan-brothers’, as the taboo is generally reserved for actual blood-siblings. Elements of the Hurnast’s attempts to create a ‘noble’ understanding of the family structure survive in that there usually is a de facto ‘head’ family that is usually the actual relatives to the original clan founders. Although the significance has waned, there is also an informal association of prestige and honor that are associated with clans that survived the fall of the Hurnast compared to other clans that are more recent start-ups.
Politically speaking, the clan is centered around the ‘noble’ family at the head, while religious figures such as Wanderer shamans take a semi-political role as advisors who guide those with power onto a righteous path. While the more-affluent clans see no issue with this, there is somewhat of a backlash by traditionalists who see that the role of shaman is being undermined by involvement into temporal affairs and political schemes, advocating for a return to the solitary monk-like role shamans originally played for Vardan society.
Holidays
  

Most instances of Geralsats have it so that after Mr. Berry Man is emptied, its husk is hung up and used as a weapons-dummy. Pictured is a more-modern one using firearms as opposed to traditional implements such as bows or spears. Locals will emphatically insist that their use of anti-southernor epithets at the dummy (as they simultaneously shoot at it) is only them observing Geralsats tradition, and has nothing to do with their views on southern peoples.


Of the holidays observed by the Vardans, the most celebrated is Geralsats, which celebrates a battle where a Vardan lord of unknown name had successfully driven off a southern invasion before the Hurnast was created, and inspired the lords to feast together, paving the way for their unity. Today, it involves the tying up of an ‘invader’ (usually a scarecrow-like doll filled with food such as deer meat or berries) to a stake, and then lighting a fire underneath. There, the children of the clan gather around the fire and dance around to music as long as they can, or until the fire goes out. Then, the body of the invader is let down from the stake, and is opened up, revealing that despite its evil, they are not some intangible demon, but are in the end, flesh (or berries). Having taught this lesson to the clan, everyone is then able to consume the body of the invader. After the invader has been emptied, its shell of a body is hung up and used for target practice.
In earlier, bloodier times, the ritual was more literal, with an actual captive from the south (usually a prisoner of war) sometimes standing in for the effigy. The fire, the dancing, and even the communal meal were observed in pretty much the same way. Although the change to the ‘invader’ being burnt into effigy is primarily a reflection of changing values regarding death and religion in Vardan Siadset, it is also a reflection of the available resources — no major wars being waged by the non-existent Hurnast means no unfortunate captive to play the role as the human barbeque for little girls to dance around to the tune of their screams. The realization that eating people gives you weird diseases was also a factor in making the switch to berries and venison.
It is perhaps because of this particularly-gruesome history that when a southern traveler innocently asks about the cultural origins of the strange doll made of berries being burnt in the town square, locals are quick to change the topic. The visitors are then simply told to not ask about the lore behind Mr. Berry Man[g]. There is nothing stopping a southerner from participating in Geralsats, though not with some uncomfortable stares — not because the clan has any problem with strangers participating, but because there is a non-negligible chance that the person’s great-great-great-grandfather was Mr. Berry Man in years past. If the ceremony goes further to the point where Mr. Berry Man’s empty husk is beaten and abused, and if the southerner hears the locals hurl appallingly anti-southerner epithets at the dummy in the process, they will often hear polite explanations that “it’s just a culture thing” and that the locals are actually very welcoming to southerners.
Another holiday practiced in Vardan Siadset — referred to by many different names — is known as the Prince’s Ride. While the origins are unclear, there are two theories. The first is that it was a reflection of the Hurnast’s political culture in which a ‘prince’ acts to represent a virtuous clan leader that is supported by their peers. The second is that the holiday is to represent the flight of a southern prince who, after converting to the Kerdaghite sect, moved his people to Varda in an Thanksgiving-like exodus story to escape overbearing Merouldian persecution and be welcomed by the Wanderer natives. Regardless of which theory[h] you may believe, the way of observing the Prince’s Ride remains relatively the same.
All children of the clan are to get together and select amongst them their ‘prince’. Although the title may suggest that only a male child can be ‘prince’, all children are viable for the role, and as such, the girls of the clan may be declared ‘prince’ as well. The children are not allowed to fight, use trickery, or get into nasty arguments over the selection — if they do so, the whole thing is canceled by the adults. So, the children are supposed to argue for virtue as opposed to negativity. While traditionally, the festival is only after the children have selected a single prince, some recent variations have developed ways of holding the festival in the case that the kids are unable to come to an agreement. If a single prince is chosen, they are draped in an opaque white cloth, and are seated atop either a horse or deer, slowly led by an adult to make sure that the mount is steady and doesn’t cause the prince to fall. The first theory holds that the ideal prince is one who is ‘guided’ by his peers wherever he wanders. The second theory holds that the Kerdaghite prince did not know where he was going, and it was only through fate that he was fortunate enough to meet the welcoming peoples of Varda, who too ‘Wandered’ their way through life.
The mount is usually adorned with rings of colorful flowers as it makes its way to the end. The mount is flanked by the rest of the children who march alongside it with mock spears in the air as a sort of ‘honor guard’. After the prince’s ride comes to an end (usually when the line of people watching from the side stops), the mount is turned about-face, and the veil is lifted so that the prince can see the route they have traveled, and the people who stood behind them. After that, the ceremony is generally concluded by a feast.
In the event of a disagreement over a prince, some clans do something interesting. The line of adults to the side remains the same, but the kids hold two marches at either end, with both converging in the middle. One prince is randomly cloaked in white, while the other is cloaked in black, with the supporters of each acting as their respective honor guard. When the mounts near each other, an honor guard hands their prince a ‘spear’ to use as a lance as the mounts slowly walk towards each other. The princes, still blind, need to rely on the shouts of their honor guards to know where to point their lance in the ‘joust’. If they both hit each other, they turn around and do it again until only one lance hits. The loser dismounts their own horse, and is guided to the victor. There, the victor offers their hand to the loser, says words of kindness, and the loser accepts. The adults help the losing prince sit behind the victorious prince on the mount, and the two honor guards merge into one. There, the march goes on to the end as usual, and both princes are celebrated.
Faith and Religion
Due to the historical presence of the Wanderers in the northern areas, as well as their persistent influence through the clans, the Wanderer’s Path is the dominant religion in both Varda and Alvgost. While the leaders of the Hurnast may have emulated the styles of some southern states in separating the authority of Ertsas and Sasken from temporal power, their failure to properly consolidate their legacy means that the clans that succeeded them follow the old ways once more, and are quite devout in their belief of the brothers’ sacrifice. 
Due to Varda’s proximity to the peoples of the south, there is a small population of Dutsasians, usually newly-arrived Merouldian missionaries or the descendants of Kerdaghite exiles who have settled in Varda for centuries.
The Merouldians are usually joined by native Vardans who, after traveling south in search of opportunity, were converted to see Dutsas’s light in the process, and subsequently followed these missionaries to their ancestral lands. While a few scattered communities may be found in Alvgost, they are generally concentrated in Varda. Although these missionary communities are very moderate in their teachings by the standards of southern Merouldians (who incessantly debate whether their ‘Incalcitrant’ brothers in the north risk corrupting the church as a whole with the darkness-worshippers, or if they are giving a damned people the chance to live a ‘half-civilized’ life[i]), they are still widely seen negatively by most of the Wanderer natives as encroaching on their territory. The fact that in the past, the Keepers had sponsored the attempts of the southern states to fell the dreaded Hurnast does not do the missionaries many favors.
The Kerdaghites, by contrast, are relatively tolerated, if not accepted, by the Vardans, and are found in both Varda and Alvgost. Whether they sought sanctuary in a far-off land, or were escaping fanatical Merouldians seeking to purge heresy, the Kerdaghites arrived in Varda much earlier than the current missionaries. During this initial period, when the Kerdaghites made their living as hunters, there was much tension with the deer-herding Wanderer natives. During the early years of the Hurnast, the earliest campaigns were to subjugate these unruly bands of Kerdaghites. However, when the Hurnast was threatened and menaced, when the final battles for the Wanderers were to come, so answered Kerdaghite swords to the clarion call…! Although it is more likely that the Kerdaghites simply feared rule from southerners who had oppressed their ancestors far more than that of the Wanderers or were otherwise eager to exact revenge for their oppression in the past, the narrative of Kerdaghite and Wanderer standing together for their shared Vardan home is a potent one that has persisted through the years.
With respect to non-Vardan religious relations, the Vardans are on far friendlier terms with Dutsasians outside Siadset rather than those living inside the region. This is due to the barely-concealed paranoia the Ledzians have over any Wanderer resurgence, and due to their historically-antagonistic relationship, the Ledzians and Vardans aren’t on good terms.
Marriage Customs
        Despite marriage being relatively free between any class within a clan (due to the technicality that it is between fellow ‘siblings’), there is a difference for what could be considered ‘commoner’ and ‘noble’ marriages. The distinction that caused this separation is not some religious code, but rather the logistics of marriage. When wedding, both sides of the family give a mutual gift of great value to the couple to ensure the good faith between the families and the happiness of the newlyweds. While it is possible for this gift to be ‘waived’ by arrangement if familial economic circumstances are not fortunate, and though it is not at all a dishonorable thing to do so, the act carries an informal suggestion of poverty or a lack of care for the spouse, meaning that families will go to great lengths to secure an appropriate gift. As such, due to the level of investment that goes into marrying, monogamy is generally the order of the day. Polygamous relationships are not unheard of, but it is usually only found within clan nobility, and even then it is not the dominant practice amongst them.
Although the practice of ‘selling daughters’ was once common during the days of the Hurnast, it is not as widespread anymore (though it does still occur in some very rare cases). Legend goes that one day, the daughter of a clan leader was to be wed away from her actual love, and she pleaded with her father in vain for a week. After failing in this endeavor, she took her vengeance by calling her father over, and drowning him and the clan shaman in a large ritual bowl of deer blood, before fleeing into the woods, never to be seen again. A sort of ghost story now persists, in that if a marriage is arranged without the consent of both parties, there might be more people who are drowned in deer blood.
Marriages between members of different clans is a gray area: while marriage within a clan is preferred, there is nothing actually stopping inter-clan marriage. While the marriages between clan nobles are usually clear-cut, being used often to merge clan strength and establish political alliances, for those on the lower rung of society, there is not an actual lot said about marrying outside the clan. It’s not forbidden, and some go so far as to marry a southerner without much controversy, but to marry outside of a clan is regarded as a little odd.
Central Siadset | Ledzi
Alternative names: Lestis (Crn.), Lestuorum (Imp.)
Compared with the relatively-barren lands of Vardan Siadset, the green patch of land in Central Siadset, or Lestuorum, is fertile, and more than capable of sustaining a collection of towns and cities that stand as a sharp contrast to the scattered Vardan clans in the snow. Formed in the area of dramatic glacial valleys — sandwiched between cliffs hundreds of meters above — the geography allows for trade to occur between the north and the equator without needing to traverse the harsh tundra. Cave systems tunneling beneath the icy plains of Varda or Alvgost also are accessible from Ledzi, and some towns are positioned in cave-openings, being geographically protected by the overhead rock, while being able to subsist on glowing mushrooms deeper inside the tunnels.
The valley's geography is akin to that of a flowing river on the map, with the towns and villages along the way like stepping stones. This corridor into the north acts as both a lifeline and a natural highway, linking the various settlements into a cohesive network, while connecting the Crinian heartland and 3 together. Trade caravans frequently travel the path, bringing goods from the icy coasts and the southern temperate regions, while its central location makes it a crossroads for merchants and traveling officials.
The frequent exchange of peoples and ideas along the path has led Ledzi’s demographics to mostly represent a mix of the peoples of Karus and Crinia’s empire who settled the fertile stretch of land, though some theorize that the Ledzians may also be partially descended from the native Vardans. There are some Vardan migrants from the cold wastes who could be found in the cities, but they are not viewed exceptionally well. Although there is no explicit discrimination, it is an unspoken reality that Vardans in the city do not live happy lives. There is not a very potent sense of Ledzian identity amongst the non-Vardans, as communities will often identify with either the city in which they live, or with their ethnic community back in the ‘homelands’ of the Crinian core and Karus.
Even the general authority over Ledzi — the Istran League — is organized not as an actual state, but more of a cooperative association of independent cities to further their shared security and economic interests. During the days of the Hurnast, when the Vardan held rule over the towns in the valleys, the League was formed amongst the cities as they rallied around Ilara, the one city that had never yielded to Wanderer treachery, and together with their southerly brothers brought the nightmare to an end, and pushed the Vardan back to their cold, icy home.
The prosperity gained in the centuries since that glorious victory, however, does not come without costs, as the constant raids from the still-present Vardan clans — and especially Clan Tuscra in Alvgost — can attest to, as they rope down from the cliffs above and leap down to take their vengeance. Yet this is perhaps an unfortunate aspect of Ledzi’s geography: situated between not only the powers of the former Crinian core and Karus, but also splitting through the middle of the fractious Vardans, Ledzi is perhaps cursed to always be at unease, being at the crossroads of competing powers and interests.
Central Siadset | The Cities
While not everyone in Ledzi lives in a city, life for the non-Vardan peoples in Siadset is characteristically more urbanized. Although the reasons can vary (those living in Ledzi itself are generally ‘cramped’ inside the limited space between the cliffs, while those in the moving cities must stay together in order to ward off attacks from any would-be raiders), the city is an important part of Ledzian life. Despite an otherwise dangerous and inhospitable land, the city provides a sense of community and security to the Ledzi’s peoples, and also holds the promise of future wealth in the trade that flows through Siadset.
Despite the limited amount of arable land in Ledzi, the cities have no particular want for food, as Ledzian fields are relatively fertile from glacial runoff, and in any case, they can simply import food from Crinia or Karus Talorum. Living conditions in the cities are generally the same throughout, being rather cramped but livable nonetheless.
While the cities maintain a great deal of independence from each other and have been relatively free to govern their own affairs ever since the collapse of Crinia’s empire, there are a few similarities (barring extraordinary examples such as Ilara). The cities are generally republican in nature, though the extent of popular participation is variable: some are structured in the ideal of the polis where all inhabitants can meaningfully contribute to political affairs, while others are veiled plutocracies where wealthy merchants or de facto (or in some cases, even de jure) hereditary nobility wield true power over overtly democratic institutions.
The Free City of Ilara
Situated at the base of the northern Karusi mountains, the Free City of Ilara is the gateway into Karus, acting as a major trade hub, and the largest city in all of Siadset. Initially an outpost for settlers from Karus as they were beginning to settle into Siadset, the site significantly grew in importance with Crinian expansion corresponding with an explosion of trade along Ledzi’s lands. Accompanying them were peoples from Crinia’s rapidly-expanding empire, and Dutsasian missionaries spreading the good word to Karus. Combined with the discovery of precious minerals in the mountains, Ilara stands as a prosperous, industrial city, nested between the mountains as a bastion of civilization and technological progress against the backward native savages.
While it was always known by all in Siadset to be a place of great wealth and prestige, when Crinia collapsed, and Karus hesitated to involve themselves in the face of the Hurnast’s rise, Ilara earned its name in Ledus history by rallying the cities against the Hurnast, and regaining the freedom of Ledzi’s people through a series of campaigns that ended the Vardans’ designs over Siadset. Though hated by the Vardans for their rebellion playing a pivotal role in the fall of the Hurnast, the city of Ilara is well-regarded by those outside Siadset, romantically depicted in flowery paintings in the Crinian core and in Karus. For their fellow cities… Ilara is just there. Not much to say about them, really. They really don’t know that much about what goes on outside their own city. A bit haughty, I suppose, judging from the one that visited us last week.
Despite it being quite some time before the Vardans can conceivably subvert the new order established by Ilara and states in the neighboring regions, there are still threats within Ilara. While officially governed by a Lord High-Commissioner (a role originally an officer appointed by Karus’s empire before evolving into a popularly-elected position for an independent Free City), Ilara’s streets are effectively partitioned between an assortment of wealthy old-money families whose ancestors were once nobles from the homeland and ambitious private companies taking advantage of the extraordinary mineral resources of Karusi mountains to make a profit. While they used to be able to keep a solid grip on power, recent agitation from those outside these circles has caused instability. The most recent source of agitation was the Otarei, which attempted a socialist uprising that was brutally crushed due both to a lack of organization on the part of the revolutionaries and intervention by neighboring members of the Istran League. Despite this, there are still some holdouts, secretly plotting against the authorities and planning to start the revolution anew.
One thing that the city has done to combat such sentiment is to permit the recruitment of Vardans — who do not have personal connections to the city’s inhabitants who are generally very poor and desperate — as mercenary guards, ready to crush any worker dissent in order to send their paychecks back home. This has not earned the Vardans much love in the eyes of the Ilarans, as the upper-class still look down on the savages, while the workers regard the Vardans as willful agents of oppression (often comparing Ilara’s aristocracy to Vardans in insult).
The Walking Cities[j]
While not permanently situated in Ledzi, the walking cities are nevertheless a central part to the life of the Ledzians. Situated atop great mechanical legs, the cities are able to scale the steep cliffs and enter the icy plains above. The main purpose of these excursions is to go out into the Vardan lands and mine the great wealth of the Karusi and Suelph mountains. Due to the hostile environment (both the literal, cold environment of Varda and the antagonistic disposition of some Vardan clans), it is through an impressive show of technological might and through the safety of numbers do the inhabitants of a city remain relatively undisturbed by the natives as they head to the mountains and mine it for resources. When the excursion is complete, the cities head once more to Ledzi and descend to the valley below, where it trades the resources with traveling merchants and re-stocks on supplies for the next trip.
For these mining-towns, life is mostly the same as any other Ledzian city. Permanent residents of the cities live in multi-storied communal residences, with meeting places such as churches, marketplaces, or workshops. While the demographics are relatively similar to any ordinary city, the presence of many temporary workers can also be felt. These workers, often referred to as ‘Riders’, are usually young men from nearby towns and join the city for an expedition or two before returning home with money. Riders usually set up temporary camps in the cities’ lower levels, where they prepare to engage in tasks such as hauling ore, operating machinery, or guarding the walls against any overambitious Vardan with a grappling hook. Riders’ motivations tend to vary between an adventurous yearning to see Varda for the first time in their lives or the promise for substantial pay. While there is not much tension between the permanent inhabitants and these riders, one negative stereotype of a rider is one who is a criminal on the run from the law, shaking off the authorities as the city moves into the unwelcoming Vardan lands.
Although for the most part the cities engage in mining activity without actively seeking fights with the native Vardans, there are a couple cities that are fitted for conflict, taking the form of mobile fortresses ready to participate in punitive expeditions against the Illastorai. While these make for intimidating sights, the always-mobile Vardans usually are able to evade these machines of war, and only those of Clan Tuscra are willing to face the giants.
The Istran League
While not a government in any real sense of the word, the Istran League is the closest thing resembling a unified polity over all of Ledzi. Formed by the still-independent Ilara and cities that had been subjugated by the Hurnast, the League was formed to spark Ledzian rebellion against the Vardan state. The ability of the cities to strike decisively at the Hurnast’s forces, combined with external support from the neighboring Dutsasian regions fearful of the prospects of a viable Wanderer state at their footsteps, their efforts were successful, and Vardan rule collapsed. In the aftermath, the cities maintained the League as a way to protect their new freedom by collectively agreeing to counter any Vardan resurgence and to support each other in times of need. Aside from these shared goals, there is not much else the League does, as there are no positions with any power to coordinate the cities of the Leagues or to subject them to any obligations to their fellow League cities. Though a small, professional force of armed, dedicated volunteers exists, proclaiming allegiance to the League as a whole, their funding is very unreliable, as they are sustained primarily by donations by the few cities willing to support them. For the most part, the cities maintain their own local forces, and it is only in ad hoc conditions do they coordinate activities with the other militias.
Although Ilara occupies the dominant position within the League, it is only one city amongst dozens: Ilara itself cannot hope to exercise influence beyond Siadset. And so, although the nature of the League makes any form of centralization near-impossible, that doesn’t stop Ilara from trying to pull teeth to get it done, as their status as a respectable power relies on their ability to mobilize the League during times when it matters. Yet it also gives Ilara the broader burden of maintaining this system: if, for instance, the Vardans manage to capture even one town, it would place the entire League into question, as it was made explicitly for the purpose of guaranteeing such a thing would not happen. And so, in any confrontation that concerns the League (such as those against the Vardans), the Ilarans go all-in, for if Ilara does not demonstrate its military glory, the network of alliances that is the League will be significantly disrupted as the other cities may think of charting their own path away from Ilaran leadership. To admit Ilaran fallibility, even by accepting favorable terms set by the enemy, would be nothing more than the collapse of the League as Ilaran authority must admit its shortcomings, so goes the logic.
Aside from a military alliance, the League is also an economic one, primarily tasked with the protection of trade and the maintenance of the League’s near-monopoly on Siadset’s mineral wealth. For those cities that are relatively insulated from the Vardan threat, the benefits of associative status with the League is the main factor as to why they are members of the League.
Central Siadset | Economy
League Ordinium
Though it was very much neglected in years past, the vast reserves of Ordinium in Siadset’s northern Karusi mountains are a major component of the Ledzian economy, and the walking mining-cities often travel in unwelcoming Vardan lands for the very purpose of extracting the resource. The League as a whole holds a near-monopoly on the resource in Siadset, often enforcing it by force against any who would disrupt this fact (mainly the Vardans). The monopoly, coupled with Siadset’s location between Crinia and Karus, allows it an advantage in leveraging its position as a major force for trade, and has partially been put into industrial use (though the number of failed experiments outweigh by far the number of success stories).
The extraction process, however, is not without risks. Putting aside the fact that the process of mining Ordinium itself (as with mining in general) is a volatile process, the regions where Ordinium are areas frequented by hostile Vardan clans. The walking mining-cities, despite their imposing mechanical legs and fortified designs, are largely the only means by which Ledzians can safely access these deposits. Despite their defensive capabilities, these expeditions are fraught with danger, and losses to Vardan raids are not uncommon, and it is not at all a rare occurrence for a lucky Vardan sniper to pick off an unsuspecting worker.
Mechanical Works
  

Though something that only the richest cities of the League could produce at scale, the existence of highly-mobile mechanical walkers is a considerable asset to the Ledzian militaries’ technological edge over the Vardans, and these designs have also seen some early civilian applications. Most city garrisons have at least one of these vehicles in their stockpile, though it’s mostly used as a patrol vehicle rather than an active war-machine, sometimes even being repurposed as a mechanical plow in peacetime. Due to Ledzi’s rocky terrain making it difficult for animals such as horses to run, mechanical walkers are the fastest practical form of transportation in the valley, and some are even capable of climbing up the cliffs to push back any Vardan raiders that attempt to rope themselves down.


One fascinating sight to behold, when one comes across the more-affluent cities of the League, is the existence of mechanical contraptions, such as walking steel platforms to quickly navigate the Ledzian valleys. While most of these contraptions are destined for military use, what with the constant paranoia of the Vardans being out to get them, there are certain civilian applications as well. The most well-known out of them are the engines of what is effectively a carriage with mechanical, spider-like legs that is exported as a luxury item to buyers in Crinia or Karus.
While Ledzia is certainly not unique in its embrace of technology — as the concepts were introduced by post-Crinian states — they are notable in the sense that they are such a major part of Ledzian economic life. Due to both to energy sources from Crinia that can power these creations, and to natively-mined steel, several of Ledzi’s cities had the sense to industrialize rapidly. In light of the Ledzians’ relatively-low population in the valley, this perhaps is one of the reasons why they hadn’t been subsumed by the neighboring powers: any conquest would be long and painful in both military and economic senses.
One invention is particularly-important to Ledzia: the sky-lantern. A sky-lantern is effectively a lantern made from cloth (or any harder material), powered by either heated air or simple engines to glide through the air. After calculating the general wind patterns, the sky-lantern is calibrated accordingly, and is sent off to travel along the valley to a location, usually to contain messages between the towns. There are stations (one of the few things that the League as an entity is able to operate on its own) along the way that can receive the lanterns during the middle of their journey, and re-calibrate as needed in order to let the lantern continue its flight. While sending a person on a mechanical walker would be significantly more reliable, sending a lantern is extremely cheap and convenient, and as such, the night sky over Ledzia can be seen dotted with the occasional patch of lanterns traveling together.
A major part in maintaining this technological progress is access to Crinian resources by way of the trade network. If anything were to happen to this, then Ledzi’s own lack of energy sources would mean that these contraptions would soon run on fumes.
Valley Agriculture
While Ilara may advertise to other regions that the League is a modern state with all her cities being prosperous beyond comparison due to trade, it’s actually only a minority of cities that can boast such conditions. For the most part, the League is composed of middle-population towns that most merchants walk past while on the way to a richer city: the richer cities are the League’s ‘heavy-hitters’, while the middling ones make up the population base and support. While trade has still seen these towns’ fortunes boosted, it isn’t excessively so, and as such, their main economic activity is centered around agriculture to support themselves.
Although the amount of space between Alvgost and Varda is limited, the ground is relatively fertile, due to the minerals in the soil as well as a constant water source in the form of glacial runoff from the overhead cliffs. However, the rocky ground also makes it difficult to grow non-native crops. As such, much of Ledzian agriculture consists of soft mosses and mushrooms, usually planting them in small patches of land that is collectively held by the town as a whole. Due to the lack of any real profitability in agriculture, some cities have a corvée system in place in which residents are required to work in the fields in order to enforce participation in the necessary task of agriculture.
While it is not as efficient as planting the moss in fields, one traditional form of moss farming involves carving a 5-meter tall stone pillar[k] with multiple holes and dents known as a ‘greenrock’. This is to increase the surface area of the rock, before it is moistened and a small patch of moss is placed on a segment of the rock. After waiting some time, the rock would get covered by moss, and the moss is then scraped off.
Despite agriculture giving the cities access to a reliable food source, the Vardans have better diets, nutritionally-speaking, due to the fact that they have much more variety, and for the average Ledzian, things such as pork, milk, or beef are luxuries when there is no room for large herds of livestock in the valleys. In the past, the only real thing they had to eat beyond what they harvest are wild birds that fly between Varda and Alvgost, or cave-toads that wander into the green areas of Ledzi from beneath the rock. Trade with the neighboring regions, and the import of other foodstuffs, have led to some diversification of the local diets, but for the most part, you would have to get used to eating glowing mushroom stew if you aren’t going to live in one of the richer cities.
Central Siadset | Culture and Society
The Polis
The most cherished political ideal the Ledzians hold is the idea of the polis — an independent, republican city able to maintain security and prosperity without surrendering its independence. While the idea fails at times in practice (most excessively so in the case of Ilara which is an effective plutocracy), the idea is still a powerful one, forming the basis of political legitimacy. This tendency is bolstered by the fact that a core identity is that of one’s city as opposed to being a part of a broader ‘Ledzian culture’, and any dilution of a city’s power means a retreat of its prestige. It is for this reason that the Istran League is decentralized and has very little power over the cities: if it pushes too hard, the question of League membership may become a question of pride for city inhabitants, and may prompt the unprecedented scenario in which a city disassociates from the League.
Faith and Religion
While the population of Ledzia as a whole is Seeker in nature, primarily due to an aggressive missionary campaign by the Charters during the fall of the Crinian empire to convert the ‘periphery’ areas before any number of competing Dutsaist faiths could do so first. Despite this being relatively-successful, there are distinct exceptions, and while these groups are often at odds doctrinally, they are able to set aside their differences in opposition to the hated "savage" Vardans, whose Wanderer beliefs lie outside the Dutsas-Worship tradition entirely.
Predictably, the affluent elites of Ledzian cities are often Eternals, with the church’s alignment of prosperity with divine favor resonating very strongly. Ostentatious displays of wealth often occur on a regular basis as the wealthy seek to showcase their piety to everyone who could hear, both impressing new visitors with the spectacle, while fueling resentment from the lower-class for wasting money on these unproductive and hedonistic pursuits. In the urban cities, a certain kind of class-divide can be seen in the places where they worship: while the Seekers often pool together community funds to establish a church in the top floor of a residential complex, the Eternals get their own well-furnished building with architecture in the imperial Crinian style.
While for the most part situated in Varda, there are also a handful of Meroudlist missions, usually as ‘resting stops’ for traveling missionaries or pilgrims before they ascend the rocks to reach their ultimate destination in Varda. Some efforts to convert Ledzians do occur, but these efforts aren’t done at scale — generally, Wanderers are easier to convert to the Merouldist church as opposed to fellow Dutsasists. One notable thing about these missions is that they are often accused by traditionalist Meroudlist opponents as being ‘indoctrination centers’ to corrupt well-meaning missionaries into Incalcitrants, prior to entering Varda. While there is some truth to the attack, as these missions often encourage ‘tweaks’ in understanding the word of Dutsas, it is moreso an adaptational change to local conditions rather than some ambition to radically transform the broader church. If, for instance, one were to preach the traditional Merouldist way of understanding Dutsas in Varda, they would quickly find an angry mob of Vardan locals at their doorstep, torches at the ready.
Despite the tensions that flare up between these sects, they all generally are able to band together in the face of Wanderer resurgence. Most Ledzians, due to their history with the Hurnast, deeply distrust the Wanderer Vardans, and see the continued presence of the clans in the cliffs above as an existential threat to the cities, necessitating constant vigilance against any attempts by the clans to unify. Unless something major happens that causes the population to change their minds on the Vardans, they will always regard them as belonging to a barbarian culture. Oddly enough, the Merouldists (who are known to be very hardline in the south) are the ones with the kindest ‘extermination policy’, almost certainly due to the influence of Incalcitrant thinking. According to Incalcitrant leadership, the spiritual death of the Wanderer can be achieved by casting out the demons possessing the Vardans via conversion, and in this way, missionary activity is the most effective way to civilize the Vardan and to stave off the apocalypse by destroying those who would otherwise fight the light of the world. While there are other Incalcitrants who believe in extending further kindnesses unto the dignity of the Wanderers (including… audible gasp! peaceful coexistence!), they tend to be silent about it, being surrounded by a culture that developed a siege mentality against the natives.
Architecture
Ledzian architecture is very interesting, due to its simultaneous embrace of outside influences that were spread through the valleys’ trade networks, as well as its own spins due to the area’s unique geography. For the majority of the towns, the Crinian styles of architecture are emulated in the public centers, in which large pillars support tall, stone buildings (trees do not grow easily in the rocky soil, and so most wood that is used in Lezia is usually imported from the south). Rustic straw-roof huts made with simple brick often dot the peripheries of these smaller towns.
In the richer cities, more-industrial and ‘blocky’ buildings made from cement-brick are common, some with steel supports for the tallest buildings. Some of the cities’ walker technology has been used in construction, facilitating the expansion of the city as populations grow. Thankfully, the fact that the buildings are made of non-flammable materials makes it so that even in the tight spaces of Ledzi where buildings are closely-packed to each other, the risk of fire is relatively low.
[a]TLDR: In the snow areas there's several rival clans that used to have a Mongol Empire over the whole region. In the green area there's trade cities. All over the place are a bunch of walking cities.
[b]Three areas here. Alvgost in the Northwest and Varda in the Southeast are snow, separated by green Ledzi in the middle.
[c]Think Dutch Republic.
[d]I made these guys based on the idea that they were akin to dating sim characters because I had no idea how else to make them have personality, so if they're really one-dimensional, I'm sowwy.
[e]Hear me out. Deer cavalry.
[f]Having Region 4's Launinrach be raided by the Illastorai frequently, and having assimilated some of their traditions/mindset for a westward conquest into Crinia.
One total reaction
Alex Bojko reacted with 👍 at 2024-11-26 11:55 am
[g]Mr. Berry Man was the name I had when I got high and came up with the idea, and I refuse to change the name. Mr. Berry Man is here to stay.
[h]It's actually a mix of both. At the start it was only practiced by a few clans as a representation of a sort of political nationalism, but the legend of the Kerdaghite prince was popularly spread by the Kerdaghites to create a mythology that the Kerdaghites are just as Vardan as the Wanderers.
[i]This whole segment was inspired by the shenanigans of 19th-century British missionaries in Africa holding genuine arguments on how racist they should be.
[j]throwing in some weird war-machine versions of these for the crinian war machine desolation
probably not Siadset-created, just kind of There and nobody knows why
One total reaction
Alex Bojko reacted with 👍 at 2024-12-04 21:48 pm
[k]I have no idea how to explain the shape in better words, but it's stretchy like the inside of a lava lamp