Region 7 – Zdrolan
Region 4 – Görtatork
Alternate names: Nkourtatourkía (Cri.), Gurtiturcum (Imp.)
    Northwestern Görtatork | The Launinrach
Alternative names: Laonínia (Cri). Dyticaea (Cri.), Regnum Launinia (Imp.), Gurtiturcum Proximal (Imp.)
The Launinrach is the hilly hearth of the Launines (Laonínoi), a cultural and ethnic supergroup divisible into four subgroups: the Dytic Launines (Dytikoí Laonínoi), the Proper Launines (Sostoí Laonínoi), the Cleft Launines (Schistoí Laonínoi), and the Lyrnines (Lyrnioí), from west to east in order of appearance. Resource-poor and originally a backwater borderland between Crinia and Siadset (the Great Snow Sea), the Launinrach has since become the core of an expanding empire.
Gameplay Divisions Recommendations
By order of granularity.
1. Divide into seven provinces (Dytichaen, Old Launinrach, Galena March, Cinnabar March, Lyrnine Colonies, Cleft Plain States.
2. Divide into six provinces (Dytichaen, Old Launinrach, Illastormarch, Lyrnine Colonies (northern OLS), Cleft Plain States (southern OLS)).
3. Divide into five provinces (Launinrach, Illastormarch, Lyrnine Colonies (northern OLS), Cleft Plain States (southern OLS)).
4. Divide into three provinces (Launinrach, Illastormarch, Other Launine States), 
5. Divide into two provinces (Launinrach and Other Launine States)
6. Combine the Launine sphere in Region 4 into a single province
7. Combine the entire Launine sphere (Dytikratia + Launinrach) (across Region 4, part of Region 1) into a single province.
The Launinrach | Situations
Major | Launinrach | The Launinrach
The Launinrach is one of the senior Hegemons of the Launines, and traditionally the preeminent polity in the entire Launine world. Though now fracturing into a number of vassals and client states, it is still a powerful empire with vitality at its core: if it falls, it won’t go down as easily as it looks, and a good reform could yet restore it to security.
Major | Launinrach | The Trans-Launine Railroad
The Rachstrail is the bloodline that connects the sprawling Launinrach, a historic road that crosses the entirety of its domain. A railroad was planned to be built along that route, but has since stalled. Reformers in the Launinrach hail its completion as a method of “shrinking the empire” and triggering a revitalization.
Major | Galena March, Cinnabar March | The Grave of a Hegemon
The rebellion and subsequent destruction of the Illastormarch kickstarted the loss of Launine influence in the north, with nearly half of the former Illastormarch eventually breaking free of the Launinrach’s influence. At the same time, the fall of the Illastormarch has invited renewed raids from the Illastorai from Siadset, and the region–once the heart of the Proper Launine world, and a check to the sprawling Dytic hegemony–is depopulating at a rapid rate.
Minor | Launinrach | Coal and Oil
Major coal and oil deposits exist across the Launinrach, for those willing to exploit them.
Minor | Launinrach | Old-Growth Ordinium
Old-growth forests in the northern Launinrach have not been developed or harvested. Beneath them, traces of Ordinium have been found: will you fell the forests for the trees, or is the thing beneath their roots the real prize?
Major | Launinrach | The Launin-lord
The Launin-lord is the absolute ruler of the Launinrach, though presently a youth under a council regency. Having been defeated by the Imperial Legion, the Launin-lord and her regents disappeared before the surrender. Finding
 her will be a priority to ensure the loyalty and stability of the Launinrach itself.
Launinrach | Divisions and Polities
The Launinrach is divided into the Launinrach proper (containing a Dytic majority and a Proper Launine minority), as well as the Cleft Launine princedoms in the southeast and the Lyrnine colonies along the north. Historically, the Launinrach controlled the entire region: presently, the Other Launine States are functionally independent states that nonetheless recognize the Launin-lord as their liege.


Though there should in theory only be one Launinrach (akin to the Crinian Tyranny), the slow fracturing of the Launinrach has led to the western Dytic Launine states declaring themselves tyrannies or despotates under the Crinian model: the former is (in theory) a higher title than the Launinrach, and the latter approximately akin, due to Crinia’s former hegemony. (See: khagan vs. Emperor for China vs. steppe). Formally, this is represented by a “Four Hegemons” system: two senior hegemons (the Launine Tyrant, the Launin-lord) and two junior hegemons (currently two Launine Despots, formerly a western Launine Despot and an eastern Illastormarch (subdivisable into the Galena March and Cinnabar March, but traditionally a single political extent) named for the Illastorai of Siadset: once a major Launinrach vassal, now broken up into several incorporated Launinrach and functionally-independent fiefs. 
Launinrach | Economy and Military
Economic Base
The Launinrach and the other Launine States are primarily subsistence-agriculture economies, being relatively impoverished, underdeveloped, and resource-poor. Logging and trapping are primary industries, though the continued existence of the Launinrach has enabled population growth and deforestation across most of the Launine sphere- in turn converting more and more land to subsistence agriculture and relative poverty. 
Specializations
Resource exploitation in the former Illastormarch is highly underdeveloped as well: there are several undiscovered deposits of coal and oil across the Launinrach and its client states. Together with Lydion in the Dytikratia, the Launine states contain arguably the largest concentration of advanced fuels on Tundra.
The Illastormarch, being depopulated and wracked by conflict, is even more underdeveloped than the rest of the Launinrach, containing old-growth forests that promise major profits from lumbering (if the region can be pacified) as well as a moderately-sized deposit of Ordinium that is completely undiscovered. 
Military
The Launinrach’s military acts on a geographical muster, primarily drawing from vassal and client states’ militaries, as well as directly administered provinces, to produce a large, but under-organized, military. An all-Launine military does exist, though its size is limited: it is reasonably capable, equipped with a contingent of mechs and relatively modern equipment, with decent doctrine on both tactical and operational levels. Notably, it has an extremely large industrial heavy artillery contingent that, while the pride of the state, has not seen action due to the devastation involved.
However, the Launinrach’s dependence on vassals for most of its on-paper military power means that its force projection is cumbersome, varying in actual strength, and generally crippled against opponents who can take the moral high ground and appeal to the Launinrach’s clients and vassals behind the Launin-lord’s back.
The Launinrach does control a major foundry for industrial artillery in the Galena March, though the vassal that controls it has a fractious relationship with the Launinrach and could plausibly break away.
Launinrach | Culture and Society
Caste and Raiding / Faith and Religion
Dytic religion is generally State Ertsakism, a derivative of Crinian Ertsakism (a fringe reactionary political philosophy-religion based on the art and aesthetic of the Wanderer’s Path), being integrated with the state, and endorsing/taking up the much-maligned theory of rule: Hard times create strong men, strong men create good times, good times create weak men, and weak men create hard times. Ascetism and performative modesty are significant components of Dytic culture and faith as a result.
A significant minority of Thresher’s Foot (Padelonitten) Dytics and other Launines exists in the eastern Dytikratia, though that minority is decreasing and discriminated against by the majority Ertsakist Dytics.
Blood-siblings (inherited from the Wanderer’s Path) are common.
Dytics (viewed as the Ertsakite “master” race) are given the “duty” of providing wisdom (that is, rule and control) over the Saskenite natives (with the duty of providing life: that is, labor and slavery). 
Dytic culture has absorbed the raiding traditions of Siadset to a degree, and State Ertsakism glorifies the act of raiding against cosmopolitan, wealthy states. Dytic consolidation over those same regions has made this tradition irrelevant in practice, but Dytic elites still view themselves as “raider/warrior elites”, and their hobbies tend to involve violence in the form of hunts, duels, and gladiator combat. The Dytic agrarian elites are also opposed to the wealthy, mercantile, decadent, cosmopolitan cities.
The Dytic ethnic caste structure is relatively flexible in Launinrach, present in its most archaic form.
Functionally, this system serves to tie the Dytic and subject upper classes together by relocating the subject upper class to the interior and encouraging cultural assimilation. This also weakens the prominence of coastal cities and political structures, and helps encourage the resilience of the Dytic states by transforming the wealthier coastland into the political periphery- damage to or even conquest of the coasts in war is relatively unimportant for a Dytic kingdom’s manpower and political structure, but fatal for their opponent successor states. 
Dytic caste structure also tends to focus more on denigration of city folk (burghers, wage laborers, wealthy magnates) than on oppressing the vast peasant class, and in fact recognizes the latter with more virtue than the former: a popular policy for the peoples used to subjugation under coastal, cosmopolitan thumbs, and one that keeps Dytic caste rule at least barely tolerated.
Holidays
The Launinrach, and other Launine and Dytic states, celebrate the equinoxes and solstices as their major festivals, as well as having harvest festivals.
Burial Rites
State Ertsakist burial rites demand that individuals be buried away from human habitation in wilderness/woodland. Fundamentalist interpretations claim 5km and unharvested land as a prerequisite, while liberal interpretations merely demand the presence of trees on the burial plot. The Launinrach’s laws vary by region and depending on the vassal in charge, with legal exemptions recognized in the Illastormarch and other raiding-prone regions (usually from 3km or 5km to “anywhere where trees haven’t been cut” or outside of 1km). 
Marriage Customs
Dytic marriage is patrilineal, and the Launinrach is no exception: in its Crinian territories, it treats matrilineal Crinian marriages as patrilineal, causing significant issues for record-keeping.


Art


Language  
German-like.
Fashion and Dress
Dytic Launines tend to be relatively short compared to Crinians. The Dytic heartland is relatively cold, and Dytics tend to be stockier, with relatively rounded features and generally dark hair and paler skin color. 
Mustaches are popular among Dytic Launines, and Dytics tend to have fairly wavy or curly hair: the current fashion is close-cropped hair with fur or felted hat for men and free-flowing hair (but veiled) for women, often combined with the felt or fur cap.
Dytic dress is descended from the Proper Launine rather than the Cleft Launine tradition, by choice more than by origin. In the original homeland, both types are common, but in the West, where Cleft-style “tunic, robe, cape” draped layering is associated with the cosmopolitan (and warmer) Crinians, Dytics predominantly use the Proper Launine knickerbocker-like trousers, with close-fronted, stiff coats that use metal clasps or fabric ties, eschewing the brooches and buttons of the coastal groups.     
Dytic states also tend to adopt sumptuary laws targeting the ruling class that compromise between luxury and faith, with a doctrine of “prohibit the best, but permit the second-best”: cloth-of-gold is banned, but cloth-of-silver is a common (and easily-tarnished) accent; silk is rare, but cotton is a common textile; gold is banned, but brass (with intricate etching) permitted; shellac (an expensive import) is banned, while lacquer and lacquer work have reached exceptional quality: notably, furs and skins are almost unrestricted. As a result, the Dytic “national costume” is relatively standard: earth-colored or monochrome surcoat and pants, likely including furs or metallic embroidery, boots, and featuring a characteristic high-necked, tight collar designed in contrast to the  Crinian style. 
        References, clockwise: Chinese overcoat, Cypriot traditional dress, Western knickerbockers. The Cypriot style is designed for warmer rather than colder weather, and would probably represent a coastal variant of the Dytic costume: the “proper” Dytic style would probably use more furs, stiffer and thicker fabrics, and less draping elements.
Architecture
        Dytic architecture is based in wood, with wooden-tiled or thatched roofs and steep, tall construction. Traditionally, Dytic elites construct their habitations side-by-side and with walled courtyards, forming compounds that act as fortifications and elite districts.
        Dytic infrastructure tends to be winding and haphazard, with roads following traditional trails rather than more practical routes and bridges constructed out of wood and rarely maintained: engineering is not at a high standard outside of the capital and Crinian regions.
Central Görtatork | The Other Launine States
Alternative names: Laonínia (Cri). Dyticaea (Cri.), Regnum Launinia (Imp.), Gurtiturcum Proximal (Imp.)
The Other Launine States are primarily populated by Proper Launines (Sostoí Laonínoi) in the Cinnabar March, the Cleft Launines (Schistoí Laonínoi) in the Cleft Plain States, and the Lyrnines (Lyrnioí) in the Lyrnine Colonies, from west to east in order of appearance. 
OLS | Situations
Minor | Lyrnine Colonies | The Lyrnine Colonies
The Lyrnine Colonies are a set of nominally subject or independent states along the northern fringe of Gortatork. Expansionist, but underpopulated and decentralized, the homesteaders of the Colonies pose minimal threat to Imperial rule- but may become nuisances to development if their claimed territory continues to expand ahead of the arrival of Imperial administration.
Major | Cinnabar March | Anarchy in the Illastormarch
The collapse of the Illastormarch has left its territory open to Siadset’s raiding. More and more lords are declaring independence, migrating, reigniting rivalries, and raiding than ever, but it is in the Cinnabar March that the turmoil is greatest.
OLS | Divisions and Polities
        The Other Launine States are politically divided into the Proper Launine warlords in the Cinnabar March (de jure Launinrach/Illastormarch, but nominally  independent), the Lyrnine Colonies, and the Cleft Plain States. 
        The Cinnabar March is one half of the formar Illastormarch, and currently in anarchy due to raids and internal wars: the threat of the anarchy spreading into the (still Launinrach-ruled) Galena March is significant, and to a degree already fulfilled.
        The Lyrnine Colonies are decentralized inland villages and towns, being the least populated of any Launine region (but geographically large).
The states of the Cleft Plain are something of an anomaly, having been only nominally subject to the Launinrach from the start. Descended from Crinian-ruled slave-trading states, the Cleft Plains adhere to a centrally administered rather than vassal-tribal model, the Cleft States’ borders and polities have remained generally stable. Likewise, the southernmost Launinrach vassal (a Cleftine governorate) has firm control over its borders and is geographically fairly large, preventing the sort of slow disintegration seen elsewhere along the outskirts of the Launinrach.


OLS | Economy and Military
Economic Base
The Illastormarch was originally a heavily-depopulated subsistence agriculture region: occasional Crinian and more consistent Launinrach rule over the area catalyzed its transformation into a military March district oriented toward Siadset, which consequently became the nucleus of its economy. However, the long hegemony of the Launinrach permitted settlement in the Illastormarch, and the political power in the Illastormarch (Galena March particularly) drew in wealth and development, though the region is still a far cry from the endless fields of Aletia, for example. 
        Following the dismantling of the Illastormarch and the retreat of the Launinrach, the Cinnabar March has collapsed under renewed pressure from Siadset’s raiders and internal conflict among its lords. Population outflow is significant, particularly among the Lyrnine population in the March: this has helped catalyze the ballooning expansion of the Lyrnine Colonies.
        The Lyrnine Colonies are founded on new, and marginal, land, with corresponding subsistence focuses. The icewall previously extended much closer to the sea, such that the coast was the only habitable portion (and only nominally inhabited by Lyrnines and Launinrach naval/trade posts). With the expansion of the hinterland, the Lyrnines have recently expanded hard into the inland valleys, though the region is still poor and decentralized. No formal authority exists in the region, though the Launinrach continues to claim sovereignty by dint of its former and several current coastal presences.
        The Cleft Plain states are agricultural states, like virtually all equatorial states. Staple crops in the highlands are wheat-like grains and fruit orchards supplemented with livestock keeping, in a land-intensive but labor-minimal model: in the coastal Cleft Plains, cash crop cultivation is more common at a much higher labor intensity.


Specializations
        The Lyrnine Colonies have recently gained an unexpected diasporic community of Outer Kormestin settlers, who have begun to spread their icewall-mining practices (albeit for land reclamation, rather than for irrigation). While in infancy currently, the dynamic of the region could change in a century or so.
        The Cinnabar March, as its name suggests, has extensive deposits of cinnabar: its recent anarchy has caused a spike in prices of red pigments in the Dytikratia, as most of its mines are currently non-functional.
        The Cleft Plains traditionally were slaving states that exported slaves to Crinia: following Crinia’s fall, the states quickly indigenized, though they kept the Crinian governorate administrative style. While other Launine states’ - particularly the Launinrach’s - antipathy to slavery killed that system, the Cleft Plains still have a system of serfdom. The Cleft States also export a significant amount of rapeseed oil (or, an equivalent), which is relatively labor intensive and must be extensively roasted and processed to become palatable- but is highly productive and widely used across the Launinrach, and imported into the Dytikratia in smaller portions.
Military
        The Cinnabar March is extremely over-militarized, with large displaced populations turning to banditry or warlordism. Critically, major artillery foundries in the Galena March dating back to the Illastormarch have been exporting to the Cinnabar March in defiance of the Launinrach’s arms ban, resulting in an unusually (and devastatingly) artillery-heavy conflict that has exacerbated the refugee crisis further. 
        The Lyrnine Colonies do not have anything more than civil militias, with low rates of firearm use due to Launine arms embargoes to the Cinnabar March and tight control over sales directly to the Colonies.
        The Cleft Plain states have small organized armies with a lance or two of mechs: while reasonably well-kept in general, these forces are not used often, while the traditional Launine tribal muster is defunct, severely limiting these states’ military capacity. On the flip side, the Cleft Plain states have well-developed (albeit somewhat antiquated) navies: a classic debate is whether the Aletian or Cleft navies (the latter in aggregate) are more powerful. (The answer is the Aletian navy by far, but the Cleft Plains states like to pretend otherwise).
OLS | Culture and Society
Faith and Religion
Mostly State Ertsakist in the Lyrnine Colonies, but majority Thresher’s Foot (Padelonitten) in the Cinnabar March (plurality in Galena March) and majority in the Cleft Plain states. Thresher’s Foot is a semi-agnostic, pluralist religion focusing on nature spirits and folklore: you’ve heard it all before. Notably, Avora and Dutsas are major spirits in Thresher folklore, though both are associated with Crinia the state(i.e. “gods of Crinia”) rather than universal deities.
Blood-siblings (inherited from the Wanderer’s Path) are common across all regions, having been integrated into the Thresher’s Foot faith as well.
The Proper Launines in the Cinnabar March are emphatically not raiders, and their brand of Thresher’s Foot has adopted a pacifist ideology: the region’s current turmoil has provoked significant religious conflicts over the morality of the warfare and the extent to which it is a divine punishment for participating.
Thresher’s Foot faiths in the Cleft Plains have unique legal characteristics, notably that they appoint a Merouldist state chaplain rather than a Thresher shaman and that they legally recognize the Crinian Tyrant as an Avoras-child. Notably, this is a trait they share with many Crinia-nostalgic successors in Crinia proper, despite the lack of a Crinian Tyrant to acknowledge or any romantic fealty to be invoked, due to the fact that the recognition is closely bound to the appointment of a state chaplain.
Holidays
Equinoxes and solstices as their major festivals, as well as having harvest festivals.
Burial Rites
No laws in the Cinnabar March, or adherent to the general Illastormarch pattern (varies highly, but generally lenient due to danger). No laws in the Lyrnine Colonies, though communities independently enforce 5km generally. Thresher’s Foot in Cinnabar March generally follows State Ertsakist patterns due to long State Ertsakist hegemony: burial in the Cleft Plains generally consists of cremation and “stirring oneself with their ancestors”- i.e., adding and mixing the ashes of the deceased with the ashes of their ancestors.
Marriage Customs
Patrilineal in all cases. 
Art
        Strong painting culture in the Cinnabar March, now displaced. The Lyrnine Colonies have a powerful folk song tradition, and their spirituals and worship songs have spread back into the Launinrach and influenced religious practice.
        Cleft literature is at a high standard, though largely unknown outside of the Cleft States: with unusually high literacy, even among serfs, the vernacular is used extensively for both high and popular literature
Language
German-like.
Fashion and Dress
        Proper Launines adopt similar clothing patterns to Dytics, but with significantly more color (particularly reds) and a generally white rather than black scheme: the Dytic pattern developed as a rejection of this traditional costume. Like the Dytics, they do not use metal buttons, favoring instead elaborately-carved wooden or shell buttons.
        Lyrnines wear similar clothing to Dytics, though with even more cold-adapted traits (additional furs, greater waterproofing, thicker fabrics, scarves, etc.)
        Cleft Launines vary from these overall patterns, wearing loose and straight trousers and wearing short coats or capes rather than the longcoats or robes of other regions. Women and men wear their hair long, though many sailors and serfs wear cropped hair: decency then demands wearing extensions or veils for formal occasions. 
Architecture
        Proper and Lyrnine architecture is based in wood, with wooden-tiled or thatched roofs and steep, tall construction. Extremely similar to Dytic architecture.
        Infrastructure tends to be winding and haphazard, with roads following traditional trails rather than more practical routes and bridges constructed out of wood and rarely maintained: engineering is not at a high standard generally.
        Cleft States tend toward the use of brickwork and plaster: though historic Crinian buildings exist on the coast, the architecture of the Cleft States is significantly different, tending toward use of ironwork rather than plaster molding, and a widespread use of paint.
Eastern Görtatork | Grekja
Alternative names: Nor-Naurackya (Crinia), Grurtiturcumkja (Imperial)
Grekja, the eastern frontier of Görtatork, is a land of mist-shrouded valleys, dense old-growth forests, and labyrinthine river systems that drain into the Grekjan Sea. Isolated from the Launinrach’s core by the jagged Blekstprin mountains and the Grekjan Sea, Grekja has evolved into a realm of fiercely independent clans and its own patchwork of fiercely independent hromadas (communes). 
Grekja Divisions
The realm divides naturally into three regions: Zemlyarad in the west, dominated by chornozem collective farms and traditional hromadas; Rikechla in the center, controlled by the Riktark-clans; and Lesyger in the east, where the most conservative hromadas maintain their old ways among their sacred forests.
While some of the regions are technically subject to the Launinrach, actual administration varies significantly by region. Zemlyarad maintains a system of elected starosts who negotiate with external authorities, Rikechla is effectively controlled by a loose confederation of Riktark-clans, and Lesyger remains largely ungoverned except by traditional hromada councils.


Grekja Situations
Major | Grekja | The Hromada Resistance
The hromadas maintain a complex system of mutual defense and resource-sharing that has frustrated all attempts at centralized control. Their successful resistance to Launinrach taxation has created a de facto autonomous region, though one that technically remains under Launinrach sovereignty.


Major | Grekja | The Untapped Forests
The old-growth forests of eastern Grekja contain substantial deposits of both common and precious minerals, as well as valuable timber. However, the hromadas consider these forests sacred and have violently resisted previous attempts at resource extraction.


Minor | Grekja | The Riktark-Clan Ascendancy
The Riktark-clans who control trade along Grekja's waterways and the Grekjan Sea have begun consolidating their influence, establishing a parallel power structure that threatens traditional hromada autonomy. Their wealth and connection to outside markets have made them increasingly influential in regional politics.
Grekja Economy and Military
Grekjan economy centers on collective agriculture in Zemlyarad, utilizing the rich chornozem soils for grain production. River trade dominates Rikechla’s economy, while Lesyger maintains a subsistence economy supplemented by small-scale forestry and hunting.
Specializations
The Riktark-clans have developed sophisticated trading networks that connect Grekja's isolated communities by both sea and river. Their control over these water routes has made them wealthy middlemen in regional trade. Zemlyarad's collective farms produce significant grain surpluses, though distribution remains under local control rather than centralized authority.
Untapped mineral deposits in Lesyger's forests represent significant potential wealth, particularly deposits of copper and iron, though extraction remains minimal due to hromada resistance.
Military
Military organization follows traditional patterns, with each hromada maintaining its own militia. The Riktark-clans field small but well-equipped forces to protect their trade routes, while Zemlyarad's starosts can theoretically call upon significant manpower from the collective farms. However, coordination between these forces remains minimal, limiting their effectiveness against organized external threats.
Notable military assets include several pre-Imperial fortifications along major river confluences and coastal areas, now controlled by Riktark-clans, and extensive knowledge of forest warfare among Lesyger's militia forces.
Grekja Culture and Society
Faith and Religion
Much of Grekjan faith represents a synthesis of Thresher's Foot traditions with local animistic beliefs. Sacred groves serve as both religious sites and centers of hromada governance. River, marsh, and sea spirits hold particular prominence in local belief systems, with river-clans maintaining their own specialized priesthood.
Blood-siblings exist primarily as communal rather than individual bonds, with entire hromadas sometimes declaring blood-kinship through elaborate ceremonies.
Holidays
Standard equinox and solstice celebrations are observed, supplemented by numerous local festivals tied to agricultural and river cycles. The spring Festival of Waters sees communities gather along rivers or the coast to renew inter-hromada bonds and negotiate trade agreements.
Marriage Customs
Marriage patterns follow hromada political alliances, with most marriages occurring between rather than within communities. Riktark-clan marriages notably involve elaborate ceremonies conducted aboard ships, often coinciding with major trade gatherings.
Architecture
Construction favors heavy timber frames with high-peaked roofs, adapting to local weather conditions. Hromada settlements center around communal halls, while Riktark-clan holdings feature distinctive elevated warehouses along waterways. 
Language
Grekjan dialects show strong Zdrolan influence, particularly in administrative and agricultural terminology, while maintaining significant Launine elements in trade and religious contexts.
Fashion and Dress
Clothing emphasizes practicality and local materials, with distinctive embroidery patterns identifying hromada membership. Riktark-clan elites have developed their own fashion incorporating elements from trading partners, while Lesyger communities maintain strictly traditional dress codes.
Riktark-clan formal wear notably incorporates waterproof elements and elaborate ceremonial accessories made to look like the scales of fish, hromada society.