Region 1 – Crinia
Region 1 – Crinia
Alternate names: The Tyranny, Crinienrach (Lun.), Carniast (Tawa.)
  





[placeholder]


Brainstorming
* History:
* Talon: Crinia used to be a world hegemon, almost like Rome’s Mediterranean empire. Crinia has fallen, we now have a bunch of successor states and warlords.
* Skelly: Repeated rises and falls of the Empire over time. A Mandate of Heaven sort of concept. Bunch of successor states claiming to be the true holder of the “Mandate of Heaven” and the true successor.
* Explicate: Crinia had practiced forced conversions during its conquest of territories, and throughout the Crinian core, there is a very entrenched Merouldist religious establishment even after the empire fell.
* Talon: Crinia starts out as exiles from another area who then form twin cities in the southern peninsula, with 7 families: 3 in each city and 1 split between two. As the empire grows, these cities eventually effectively merge into one, and some people blame its collapse on this commingling
* Talon: In a kind of Punic war against another rising power that is more of a secular egalitarian democracy compared to Crinia’s monarchy, they take heavy losses but are inspired through religious faith to devote even more war to the effort and eventually win
   * It is at a heavy cost, the purged republic (their name has been removed from history) actually takes less casualties, and an ensuing theme in works on this history is that the generals who used people's faith are portrayed as either rightfully zealous crusaders or cynics who sent poor people off to die in the thousands.
   * this also saw the reform from a more elite army to a more conscript army?
* Explicate/Talon: Disunity between lower and upper classes lead to a bunch of instability. As a bandaid, the noble families system is reworked, but this introduces a fundamental, structural problem that allows others to form their own powerbases and threaten the imperial unity in future moments of instability.
* Explicate: Crinia is a slave society, and that carries on into the modern day.
   * Talon: The Eternal Empire is opposed to slavery on moral grounds, but Crinians can also justify that slavery is actually good on moral grounds, and we see this as a confrontation of the moral benefits of empire
* Explicat/Talon: The fall of collapse is attributed by more reactionary people to barbarian hordes (although their actual influence is kind of questionable)
* Culture:
* Explicate: Dutsas-Worship is very shaped by what Crinia was, it’s practiced through temples, it’s very tied to institutional power, it has a very driven but also very harsh sense of justice, and it encourages a deference to higher authority. 
   * The old way of understanding religion persists really hard, but at the same time you have a bunch of these sects as people get extremely passionate about what the right way to do things is
   * For most people 
* Explicate/Talon: Crinian culture, even in its collapsed state, still views itself as being kind of naturally superior and the ‘right’ way to live, that even though Crinia is suffering right now, an ideal Crinian government will return and it’ll be great, better than everywhere else.
* Popular figures in history that become these kind of wider cultural icons:
   * Cynical general from the war against the republic
   * Spartacus type revolter who was very religious and claimed a kind of fealty to the emperor but also killed a lot of nobles and soldiers of the empire
   * Guy before the revolt who sees the errors of the Crinian system and tries to get some reforms passed that would be actually helpful but gets blocked, and there’s this lost cause for the reforms like oh if only we had those reforms we would be great
   * conservative cicero type figure who’s very well spoken and anti-corrupt and helps lead some of the charge against the nobles too
   * extremely manipulative noble guy (could split this into two guys) who keeps trying to weasel more shit for the nobles while the empire collapses to unrest
   * the dowager empress but good, the emperor at the time of the revolts is kind of a dumbass but his mother is like an actually politically competent person and is trying to fix shit for him but she’s barred out before the bandaid negotiations are signed and so she can’t tell the emperor that it’s a stupid idea
   * very progressive emperor who’s hated for going too far and being too progressive, ends up deposed by the nobles and replaced with a more traditional empire; this happens before the revolts and helps mark the decline of imperial power to be placed in the hands of local nobles
* Skelly: Religious order of nobles sort of organisation inspired by the Praetorian Guard of Rome, that would depose Emperors they didn’t like. Sort of a secret society. Should still be around in some fashion by the time players are around. Could interact with the Kindred or something maybe.
* Explicate: The Dawnguard. During the years of Crinia, everything is going to shit, moral decay is around, and so a militant Dutsasian movement of laymen is emerging to 'restore the light', representing the sort of reactionary lower-class. Because they grow to significant numbers, the actual church (which is very much uncomfortable with the poor people getting weapons) decides to integrate them to ‘control’ them, and they act as a barely-organized religious police without any actual formal status.
* Successor and Breakaway Countries:
* Explicate: On one of the islands (like a really small one), there could have been a successful slave revolt, and they're completely diplomatically isolated from everyone else as an island of devil-worshippers.
* Skelly: Potential Successors: 1 geographic, 1 or 2 by nobility/bloodlines/inheritance, 1 that is the most powerful but geographically on the outskirts, 1 by religious claim.
   * Talon: Geographic successor claims to be the successor because they have founded a return to the original homeland of the Crinian families. 
* Timjim: I think we need a or some states that are not "successor" states states which have positioned themselves in opposition to the idea of crinia, that have either gained their freedom or are the descendants of conquerors of the crinian lands
   * Kerdaghite state
   * Many successor states and city-states are based in the southern peninsula where the twin cities were originally founded, these do carry a lot of Crinian culture but they’re still distinctly not claiming to be Crinian (and in the absence of state we have a lot more feudalism and an empowered church.)[a]
* Talon: Maroons are based on the eastern island here, while the religious successor state is based on this central island (there were a lot of monasteries there before the collapse and it became a kind of second home)
  

* Rev Reqs:
* Population: 670 million
* Religious Breakdown: Mostly Dutsas-Worship and sects
* Manufactured and natural resources: see map, importantly; very little ordinium
* Unique Landmarks: 
   * big imperial projects like big cathedral on monastery island
   * big ww1-style trench wasteland that came before even Crinia, still has a few roaming war machines and stuff that patrol its little area[b]
   * twin merged cities, the largest city on equatorial ledus banum with a population on 3 million, sprawling as two cities combine into each other with a lot of buildings from imperial days like the palace and the council and the homes of the families [c]
   * How Good Infrastructure is:  
      * in most of the area it’s not great but in the southern peninsula it’s okay
      * How reminiscent the culture is to people in the empire:
      * pretty reminiscent! `but crinians are more cynical and understand that an empire can collapse in a way that imperials can’t really
      * also slavery is not liked by the empire
      * Plaskit wants (mostly done)
      * “Frankish/Turkish” style empire (Launinrach) from Region 4 controls northeast half of image at right, maybe has breakaways that control other parts of this section
      * Former “claimant tyranny” successor princedom based in geographically-isolated Region 9 (Sichuan-analogue): succeeded by current Region 9 power
________________
Eastern Crinia | The Dytikratia[d]
Alternative names: Thoesis ke Aleta (Cri.), Lydion (Cri.), Regnum Dytica (Imp.), Thursia et Aletia (Imp.)
Dytikratia | Divisions and Polities
The Dytikratia refers to the regions of Thursia and Aletia at minimum. The Launinrach of Görtatork in the east controls the regions of Old March and northeastern Aletia, though its grasp in the latter is tenuous and close to failing. Old March was formerly Crinian, but is now Dytic in culture: Aletia has an Aletic Crinian plurality, but significant regional Aletine and Dytic minorities at roughly 4:3:3 ratios. 
The Thursian Tyranny is a Crinianized Dytic state and one of the four Hegemons of Launine civilization, and one of the two senior hegemons: it controls Thursia, the Thursian March, and holds much of coastal Aletia in hegemony. It declared independence from the Launinrach and kickstarted its decline, displacing the Illastormarch as a hegemon altogether and relegating Lydion to a junior hegemon.
It is a rising power, but has the smallest Dytic population of the regions, and (like the Seleucids) arguably a paper tiger that cannot recoup losses as its Launinrach rival can. 
Following the Imperial Conquest of Ledus Banum 77, Thursia submitted as a willing vassal of the Empire in return for control of coastal Aletia, during the Partition of Aletia. Thursia now faces the challenge of administering a region with a high Dytic population[e] and wealthy/powerful Crinian establishment[f] alike, where the traditional caste system is under immense pressure.
The Despotate of Triskelion is a similar Crinianized Dytic state, and one of the two junior Hegemons: it is unified and stable, but relatively poor, with a Dytic plurality. It acts as a buffer state between Aletia and Lydion, being more unified than the former and roughly equal in perceived power to the latter. (Functionally, Triskelion is more powerful, though it lacks the attitude and preparation to capitalize on its advantages in an expansionist fashion).
Triskelion’s submission with the Legion at its door only managed to cow the coastal and Crinian segment of the Despotate, leaving inland Triskelionite tribes (both native and Dytic) to quietly and quickly dissolve northward. While Triskelion’s territorial integrity and economy remain intact, its military (via the tribes of inland Triskelion) is steadily emptying into Aletia and the border Launinrach, bringing further instability to the region.
The Aletian League / Aletian Despotate is[g] a confederation (alliance?) of Crinian, Aletian, and Crinianized Dytic states that composes most of Aletia and the south-west (the wealthiest segment) in particular: though founded in opposition to Launinrach hegemony and supported/influenced by Thursia to various degrees, the League is a power in its own right. It has laid claim to the title of Junior Hegemon (implicitly displacing Lydion), a hotly contested claim. While more progressive than any other Dytic state, it is not consciously cosmopolitan or progressive in nature.
Under the Partition of Aletia, the Aletian League was theoretically wiped off the map by Imperial intervention. Invaded before Thursia and the Launinrach, the latter powers submitted to Imperial rule in return for control of Aletia. With the Despotate functionally dissolved, some Aletian princes still hold power as vassals beneath the Senior Hegemons: but for the most part, Aletian power is broken.
The Despotate of Lydion is a semi-Crinianized Dytic state that frankly doesn’t have much going for it: poor, with a small (but not Thursian-level) Dytic ruling caste, and only dubiously in control anywhere in the interior of its main peninsula, it has been stagnant for over a century, having lost its status as a Senior Hegemon to Thursia, and now competing with the Aletian Despotate to remain a hegemon at all. Rabidly prideful and expansionist among the upper leadership, and rabidly indifferent among the populace, Lydion is viewed by the Launinrach as a cautionary tale- “what we could/will become if things keep on going this way”. Notably, Lydion (being neither rich/decadent nor integrationist) is usually held in this fashion by reformers: conversely, conservatives and caste supporters in the Dytic realms tend to support Lydion and its claims.[h]
        The Imperial invasion rolled through upper Lydion with no resistance, with the Despot technically surrendering hours after the Imperial legionary vanguard had simply marched unimpeded through his capital and up the peninsula.
With the fall of Aletia, Lydion is once again an uncontested Junior Hegemon- but the gap between it and the Senior Hegemons has grown into a chasm instead. For the first time in centuries, Lydion must face the reality of its weakness: but then again, so must Triskelion…
 As always, southern Lydion remains isolated and indifferent to the change in suzerain. 
Gameplay Divisions Recommendations
By order of granularity.
         1. Divide into seven provinces (Thursia, Thursian March, Aletia, Old March, Triskelion, Lydion, Heratid Gate)  
         2. Divide into six provinces (Thursia, Thursian March, Aletia, Triskelion, Lydion, Heratid Gate): may merge Old March into Region 4 (Launinrach/Dytichaen)
         3. Divide into five provinces (Thursia, Aletia, Triskelion, Lydion, Heratid Gate), 
         4. Divide into three provinces (Thursia, Aletia, Lydion)
         5. Divide into two provinces, merge one into Region 9 (Thursia et Aletia, Lydion, merge Old March into Launinrach/Dytichaen) 
         6. Divide into two provinces (Dytikratia / Thursia ent Alesia, Lydion en Triskelion)
         7. Merge into one province (Thursia et Aletia (including Triskelion), merge Lydion into other regional province)
Buildings, Resources, and Landmarks
Thursia and/or Thursian March have the Thursian Bellroads and the Thursian Bronzemakers. Thursia produces bronzes, which require both supplies of copper and of tin and zinc: its industries and agriculture are developed.
Aletia also has iron and copper mines, but is most known for its copper-bottomed ships: among the equatorial states, it is the most significant shipbuilder, and close to the creation of ironclad hulls (albeit far from being able to manufacture engines).
Triskelion exports beers and small amounts of many raw resources. It is not heavily commercialized.
Lydion has small Ordinium deposits. Heratid Gate has developable medium Ordinium deposits. Lydion and/or Heratid Gate have major coal and oil deposits. Lydion imports arms.
Maps


	

	  

	Population density map of the Dytikratia: coastal Aletia is densest, followed by the Launinrach, Thursia, and coastal Triskelion. Lydion is underpopulated.
	

Military Note
Mechs in the region are relatively primitive, generally being crude bi- or quadripedal tractor or carriage frames imported from Siadset and fitted with armor plates domestically. [i][j]Light infantry walkers as seen in Ledzia or Dionaean puppets, walking-city mechs, and Kikairettou-style armors are unknown or at least unseen: mechs in the Dytikratia fill the niche of tanks.
The exception to this rule are imported Dionaean mechs, seen in Aletian states: these are infantry platforms, and generally armored to the minimum necessary to resist small arms fire. 
Imperials used to defeating these forces may find themselves sharply checked upon meeting Polar mechs of significantly greater capabilities.
Dytikratia | Culture and Society
Caste and Raiding / Faith and Religion
Dytic religion is generally State Ertsakism, a derivative of Crinian Ertsakism (a fringe reactionary political philosophy-religion based on the art and aesthetic of the Wanderer’s Path), being integrated with the state, and endorsing/taking up the much-maligned theory of rule: Hard times create strong men, strong men create good times, good times create weak men, and weak men create hard times. Ascetism and performative modesty are significant components of Dytic culture and faith as a result
A significant minority of Thresher’s Foot (Padelonitten) Dytics and other Launines exists in the eastern Dytikratia, though that minority is decreasing and discriminated against by the majority Ertsakist Dytics.
Blood-siblings (inherited from the Wanderer’s Path) are common.
Dytics (viewed as the Ertsakite “master” race) are given the “duty” of providing wisdom (that is, rule and control) over the Saskenite natives (with the duty of providing life: that is, labor and slavery). 
Dytic culture has absorbed the raiding traditions of Siadset to a degree, and State Ertsakism glorifies the act of raiding against cosmopolitan, wealthy states. Dytic consolidation over those same regions has made this tradition irrelevant in practice, but Dytic elites still view themselves as “raider/warrior elites”, and their hobbies tend to involve violence in the form of hunts, duels, and gladiator combat. The Dytic agrarian elites are also opposed to the wealthy, mercantile, decadent, cosmopolitan cities.
The Dytic ethnic caste structure is relatively flexible across most regions, but is more legalistic in wealthy Thursia, (Launine/Thursian) Aletia, and Triskelion, where the work of establishing the religion was deeply intertwined with state power, bureaucracy, and the subjugation of a literate class. Qualifications for the upper ethnic classes, nominally dependent on one’s ancestry and “hardship/machismo” presentation, are in reality measured by residence location, clothing and cultural presentation, and just the opinion of the other elites, though the process is more formal and involves designated officials in some of the coastward Dytic states. 
Functionally, this system serves to tie the Dytic and subject upper classes together by relocating the subject upper class to the interior and encouraging cultural assimilation. This also weakens the prominence of coastal cities and political structures, and helps encourage the resilience of the Dytic states by transforming the wealthier coastland into the political periphery- damage to or even conquest of the coasts in war is relatively unimportant for a Dytic kingdom’s manpower and political structure, but fatal for their opponent successor states. 
Dytic caste structure also tends to focus more on denigration of city folk (burghers, wage laborers, wealthy magnates) than on oppressing the vast peasant class, and in fact recognizes the latter with more virtue than the former: a popular policy for the peoples used to subjugation under coastal, cosmopolitan thumbs, and one that keeps Dytic caste rule at least barely tolerated.
Burial Rites
Burial takes place in remote wilderness, though depending on the region “remote wilderness” may mean five kilometers from the nearest inhabited dwelling, or five meters into a small urban grove cultivated for this specific purpose. Cremation is common as well. Burnt sacrifices are often offered at funerals, in an indigenization of Wanderer practice.
Marriage Customs
        Dytics are patriarchal, in contrast to the generally-matriarchical Crinians: as part of their assimilationist policies, Dytic men are encouraged to marry Crinian women, under which the Crinian patriarchal system takes precedence and the children are raised and considered Dytic while the mother retains separate “head-of-household” rights coequal with the father: outside of this specific circumstance, Dytic states generally permit the coexistence of the two models, but not conversion between one or the other model.
Language
        Dytic language is vaguely German, but the prevalence of Crinian exonyms in the Dytikratia means that for most purposes a Crinian name will also work, and often be more common outside of the elite.
Fashion and Dress
Dytic Launines tend to be relatively short compared to Crinians. The Dytic heartland is relatively cold, and Dytics tend to be stockier, with relatively rounded features and generally dark hair and paler skin color. 
Mustaches are popular among Dytic Launines, and Dytics tend to have fairly wavy or curly hair: the current fashion is close-cropped hair with fur or felted hat for men and free-flowing hair (but veiled) for women, often combined with the felt or fur cap.  
Dytic dress is descended from the Proper Launine rather than the Cleft Launine tradition, by choice more than by origin. In the original homeland, both types are common, but in the West, where Cleft-style “tunic, robe, cape” draped layering is associated with the cosmopolitan (and warmer) Crinians, Dytics predominantly use the Proper Launine knickerbocker-like trousers, with close-fronted, stiff coats that use metal clasps or fabric ties, eschewing the brooches and buttons of the coastal groups. 
Dytic states also tend to adopt sumptuary laws targeting the ruling class that compromise between luxury and faith, with a doctrine of “prohibit the best, but permit the second-best”: cloth-of-gold is banned, but cloth-of-silver is a common (and easily-tarnished) accent; silk is rare, but cotton is a common textile; gold is banned, but brass (with intricate etching) permitted; shellac (an expensive import) is banned, while lacquer and lacquer work have reached exceptional quality: notably, furs and skins are almost unrestricted. As a result, the Dytic “national costume” is relatively standard: earth-colored or monochrome surcoat and pants, likely including furs or metallic embroidery, boots, and featuring a characteristic high-necked, tight collar designed in contrast to the  Crinian style.     
        References, clockwise: Chinese overcoat, Cypriot traditional dress, Western knickerbockers. The Cypriot style is designed for warmer rather than colder weather, and would probably represent a coastal variant of the Dytic costume: the “proper” Dytic style would probably use more furs, stiffer and thicker fabrics, and less draping elements.
Architecture
        Traditional Dytic architecture is wood-based, with elites building homes in collective ringed and walled compounds for defense and prestige/segregation. Outbuildings are common, roofs are generally sod rather than thatch, and trees or stone walls are used to demarcate boundaries instead of hedges or fencing. Property lines, fence lines, and roads follow geographic contours rather than straight lines. 
Northwestern Dytikratia | Thursia
Alternative names: Thoesis (Cri.), Regnum Dytica in Thursia (Imp.), Tursia (Laun.)
Thursia | Situations
 Major | Thursia | The Thursian Tyranny
The preeminent power in the region, the Thursian Tyranny, is a rising Senior Hegemon and a wealthy, dynamic, commercialized state- but it is also deeply vulnerable, founded upon the rigid caste control of a tiny Dytic minority. Small setbacks- like the emergence of Imperial rule- could trigger a cascading collapse.
Minor | Thursia | Thursian Bronzes
Thursian bronzes are used across Crinia for religious ceremonies of all kinds, while the industry itself sustains religious diversity in the Thursian Tyranny. Usurping this role could create an outsized religious impact, or simply just a lot of money in tariffs and taxes…
Minor | Thursia | Thursian Bellroads
Thursian bell towers and their associated roads serve as early warning networks, trade posts, and markers of state power. Integrated into an Imperial system, they could facilitate control over the region.
Minor | Thursia | Thursia’s Ringing Lances
The Thursian state owns one of the most powerful arsenals of mechs inward of the deep polar regions, which serve as the shock cavalry and prestige arm of the military- and act as a force multiplier in the face of a Dytic minority in the region. But with coastal Aletia integrated into Thursia by Imperial authority rather than Ringing Lance prowess, the old Lances find themselves sharply demoted and their exclusive caste widened and weakened instead. Quickly, rumbles of reactionary politics have begun to breed.
Minor | Thursian March | The Thursian March
Illastorai from Siadset commonly raid into Crinian territory. The Thursian March is traditionally the frontline of this conflict, but the Thursian Tyranny has managed to secure a tentative peace through strength for now. As a result, the March has slowly begun to develop, though its growing wealth is ever more attractive to raiders.
Thursia | Divisions and Polities
Thursia generally refers to the sub-regions of Thursia and the Thursian March, both ruled by the Thursian Despotate. The Thursian local rulers are referred to as Governors, and appointed by Thursia.
Thursia is separated from Aletia by a major river: the Thursian-controlled portion of Aletia is just referred to as Thursian Aletia.
Thursia | Economy and Military
Economic Base
Thursia is a relatively wealthy and developed slaveholding agrarian economy, with a gradient into hilliness and increasing poverty moving north into the March and approaching the Snowfield. The Thursian Tyranny has thoroughly absorbed the economic structures of the old Crinian sphere, and the mercantile culture of the old Crinian Basin is alive and well. 
The Thursian Dytic elite is primarily agrarian, but connected closely to the flow of goods across the Basin: its position toward trade has been welcoming toward its profit, but ambivalent or disdainful of the actual practice. Though the relationship has never been interrupted in recent times, Thursia’s upper class is much more dependent on trade than it believes itself to be.
Specializations
Thursia’s urban centers are major exporters of brasswork and bronzework, including liturgical implements and Thursian bells. Thursia traditionally marks the borders of its control with bell towers that also serve as warning systems and trade posts, and has lined its fog-ridden coast with bell towers and lighthouses to facilitate ship movements. At the same time, these bell towers serve as conjunctions for the tyranny’s road network, and as monuments to Thursian power. The eastern Thursian Tyranny is punctuated by a series of lines of bell-monuments of increasing grandeur and newness, reflecting Thursia’s expansion.
Thursia exports its bronzeworks significantly to religious centers across Crinia: the Tyranny has tolerated this practice in recognition of the immense profit it brings. However, this has also encouraged religious diversity and permitted the bronzeworking guilds to become focal points of heretic or heathen influence and power.
Military[k]
Thursia’s small recruitable Dytic population necessitates an elite, professional army supplemented by large numbers of disposable native rabble. The former role is filled by the Ringing Lances, squadrons of (state-controlled) mechs operated by Dytic pilots that serve as the crack heavy armor of the Dytic military. Imported at significant expense from the polar region, the Ringing Lances are nearly unparalleled as a force in the equatorial regions- though their reputation is greater than their actual capabilities, and losses to the Lances are nigh-irreplacable. 
The main contingent of Thursia’s other troops are conscripted, low-quality infantry fielded from the native Thursi-Crinian peasantry, supported by highly professional foreign mercenaries as logistics and supply elements. This setup minimizes the revolt capabilities of the army by separating the loyalties of logistical and native combat units, but permits them to serve primarily as garrison and attrition forces until the introduction of the Lances to the theater.
        Thursia has the strongest military and military reputation in the Dytikratia: it generally takes an alliance of two other Dytic powers (or a defensive war in the Launinrach) to balance Thursia. Historically, Thursia allied with the Aletian League to shatter Launinrach hegemony, then with Lydion to bring the Aletian League to heel (both victorious): its ambitions toward Aletian hegemony were checked by the threat of a grand coalition of Lydion, the Launinrach, independent elements of the League, and Triskelion. 
        Thursia currently aims to diplomatically (or at least without outright war) subjugate the Aletian League, as Triskelion prefers neutrality unless war breaks out, Lydion detests the League, and Launinrach rule is anathema to the existence of the League itself.
        After the Imperial invasion, the Partition of Aletia was functionally a military occupation, breaking decades of reputation-building and soft policy for immediate gains (and to counter the Launinrach’s own territorial gains). As a result, though some sympathetic princedoms and Thursian puppets have remained loyal, Thursia’s subjugation of the Aletian coast has instead garnered a mass backlash from the population- particularly the Aletian Crinians- that has turned its investment increasingly sour.
Thursia | Culture and Society
Caste / Faith and Religion
Thursian caste is extremely legalistic and rigid, with strict distinctions between Dytics, Dyticized Crinians, and native Thurso-Crinians: the original Dytic class has not expanded in any significant degree beyond immigration, and intermarriage is forbidden. Dytics are technically permitted to be enslaved or to lose property to seizure or foreclosure, but in practice are protected: this has protected their status, but also restricted their ability to join commercial enterprises.
Blood-siblings are legally forbidden in Thursia, following an outbreak of bloodborne disease that briefly rendered the act dangerous: the plague was viewed as divine in origin, and the process subsequently forbidden. Occasionally, this issue creates tension during diplomacy.
The caste system has been incredibly strained by the coastal Aletian conquest, with the Dytic class doubling in size verifiably and an even segment of Aletians simply unverifiably Crinian or Dytic. At the same time, the Aletian Crinians are wealthier and more powerful than the Thurso-Crinian underclass, undermining the economic basis of the caste system. Dytics in Thursia, while mostly supportive of the annexation, are witnessing the rise of a reactionary movement opposed to the expansion of the Dytic class to non-Thursians.
Holidays
Equinoxes, harvest days, and Tyrants’ birthdays are celebrated: traditionally, the tyrant will hold a national festival once every three years for a week, at which all enslaved Dytics are freed, indebted Dytics have their debts forcibly cancelled, and (occasionally) native slaves are similarly liberated. 
Burial Rites
Strictly enforced by caste law to the maximum extent: i.e., rigidly following the five-kilometer proscription.
Marriage Customs
Miscegenation is banned, in contrast to other Dytic states’ actively assimilationist models. Patriarchy is enforced to varying degrees of effectiveness for all citizens, not just Dytics.
Art
Concentrated in fine bronzework and bellwork.
Language
Dytic among the elite, Thursic Crinian outside of that elite.
Fashion and Dress
Archetypally Dytic and Thurso-Crinian.
Architecture
Mostly Crinian in form, with a strong stoneworking tradition: Dytic wood use has been largely abandoned outside of liturgical use, where at most the forms of wood buildings are replicated in stone or plaster. Dytic “fortress estate” traditions hold in the March, but in the south the Crinian plantation model is more common. Arched gates to estates are preserved in all cases, with the addition of chimes or bells: the presence of the (expensive) metal hanging openly from the gate acts as an indicator of wealth and security.
Northeastern Dytikratia | Aletia
Alternative names: Aleta (Cri.), Aletia (Imp., Laun.), Regnum Dytica in Aletia (Imp.).
Aletia | Situations
 Major | Aletia | The Aletian League / The Aletian Despotate
One of the three major powers in the region, the Aletian League is a hegemony-coalition claiming a Despotate rank, and an active contender for the status of Junior Hegemon (likely displacing Lydion in the process). While fractious and deeply polarized, the League is the most densely populated and wealthy Dytic polity. Or, at least, it was- before the Imperial Invasion.


Major | Aletia | The Partition of Aletia
        Aletia was divided between Thursia and the Launinrach following the Imperial invasion, with Thursia inheriting the coastal provinces (and a major amount of unrest) and the Launinrach regaining the inland provinces with Imperial garrison and infrastructural support. The League, having always been a confederacy at best, has simply dissolved: no viable successors exist, and its claim to hegemony has been effectively neutralized.
Minor | Aletia | Aletian Iron and Copper
Aletia has highly developed, productive, iron and copper mines.
Major | Aletia | The Aletian Icebreaker Fleet
The Aletian fleet serves a vital commercial function as icebreakers and as protectors of trade across the eastern Crinian Basin. The decline or annexation of the fleet could deeply change the mechanics of Crinian trade. Following the Partition, the Aletian fleet is the sole remaining official element of the Aletian League. A navy without a state, it must now find a way to survive in the new Aletian theatre.
Minor | Aletia | Aletian Lances[l]
The Aletian League controls the largest number of mechs in the Dytikratia, though the second-most by tonnage. This force is deeply decentralized, and concentrated in light (scout and anti-infantry) vehicles, but composes the backbone of the Aletian military. Following the collapse of the Aletian League, Aletia’s lances have remained intact under local lords whose authorities have nonetheless collapsed, with Imperial garrisons, Dytic walkers, and Launine guards now patrolling the streets instead of local retinues.
Major | Aletia | The Struggle for Aletia
As the Launinrach struggles to hold Northeast Aletia and the Old March, the Thursian Tyranny secures its influence over the coastal Aletian League, while the Aletian League’s Despot tries to navigate independence and security. In the south, Lydion looks on with rash jealousy, while the neutral Despotate of Triskelion finds itself unexpectedly kingmaker in the four(five?)-way contest. Following the Partition of Aletia, the Launinrach now firmly controls inland Aletia, Thursia somewhat controls Coastal Aletia, and Triskelionite defectors are gradually increasing turmoil in the region. For now, the Struggle for Aletia seems to have ended- or at least passed into a new phase of occupation.
Aletia | Divisions and Polities
Aletia generally refers to Aletia proper and the Old March: the latter is smaller and poorer than Aletia proper, which constitutes the majority of the territory and the vast majority of its population, wealth, farmland, industry, power, etc.
Aletia proper is divided into the Aletian League (covering coastal and central Aletia, most of the region and its richest segments), a strip of Thursian direct control (Thursian Aletia), and a remnant of Launinrach control in the northeast. Functionally the Aletian League controls the vast majority of the territory.
The Old March is controlled by the Launinrach, and currently secure- though the loss of Launine Aletia would put the Old March next in the line to break away from the Launinrach, and arguably represent a terminal conclusion of the Launinrach’s hopes at empire. (Closest analogue: Thursia-Egypt successfully conquering Aletia-Syria and Arabia from the Launinrach-Ottomans)
The Aletian League is a mix of Crinian and Dytic states, generally mercantile and agrarian respectively. The League is divided by racial, economic, and political (pro versus anti-Thursian/Launine/independence, or pro-centralization vs. anti-centralization) lines, and generally can agree on nothing except for the value of their shared alliance. The League is also referred to as a Despotate, but does not have a Despot: the ranking is collective.
Aletia | Economy and Military
Economic Base
Aletia is a wealthy agrarian-commercial economy, an exporter of food to Thursia, and highly populous. Aletia’s economy is slaveholding, with varying degrees of ethnic components. Aletia is a direct heir of the old Crinian mercantile system, and enthusiastically participates in trade: of all the Dytic powers, it is the most involved in international commerce, and is most amenable toward that commerce, with many outright plutocratic polities in the region. Aletia’s Dytic population is a minority compared to the Aletic Crinians in the area, but the extreme fragmentation and political diversity of the region have resulted in areas of Dytic political dominance and majority coexisting alongside near-exclusively-Crinian states.
Specializations
Aletia holds a number of important iron and copper mines, exporting into the Launinrach and Siadset.


Aletic Crinians are expert shipwrights, a trait that the Dytics of the region have adopted enthusiastically. Aletic copper-bottomed ships are considered some of the highest-quality in the world, and Aletic icebreakers are key to keeping the trade lanes of Crinia open year-round. In particular, the “subtropical” regions of Lydion and the southwest/northwest, as well as the Crinian Bay, rely on these icebreakers during seasonal fluctuations.
Military
        Aletia’s military is decentralized in army (where each individual state has its own armed forces), though nearly half of the states share a single kit, a generally similar command structure, and doctrine, due to centralization efforts. Various states own squadrons of mechs, though there is a heavy skew toward light mechs and noble ownership rather than the professional (but expensive) heavy lances of Thursia.
Doctrine is generally more advanced than physical reality, and everybody agrees that the army needs reform and evolution-though nobody can agree on how, and to what degree. Nevertheless, Aletia’s military is functionally on par with its rivals in the Launinrach and only slightly worse than that of Thursia: if it were to be unified and its army reformed, Aletia would be Thursia’s equal, and potentially its superior.
        Aletia does have a centralized and professionalized navy, which primarily serves to protect trade. Imported industrial engines and explosives from the poles have allowed the Aletian League to field a powerful battlefleet as well, permitting Aletia to project force as far as the Heratid Gate and central Crinia. Notably, Thursia’s influence in the coastlines has influenced a significant portion of the Aletian fleet’s sailors, while the pro-independence faction dominates the officer class: this subversion is known and feared by the pro-independence and pro-Launine Aletian members of the League. 
        Following the Imperial invasion, the Aletian Icebreaker Fleet has remained intact, but the Despotate has collapsed. While solvent for the immediate future (due to a fair-sized reserve and some abilities to collect tolls for their commercial services across the Eastern Basin), the Fleet’s main financial supporter in the Aletian league is gone. 
        With Thursia seen as an opportunist conqueror, the Fleet’s appetite for Thursian integration has sharply collapsed (for now). For now, the Fleet seems divided between increasing tolls and tariffs across the Basin[m], and adopting formal stateless independence, or seeking Imperial support and sanction as a direct subordinate / organ of the Imperial government.
Aletia | Culture and Society
Caste / Faith and Religion
        Aletia’s caste system varies wildly between regions, and the most vibrant religious discourse is in Aletia. State Ertsakism, Crinian Ertsakism, and even Thresher’s Foot minorities have spread among the Aletic Crinian and Dytic populations alike, though the law of the land is still some form of caste in general. Notably, Dutsaism is a minority in Aletia.
Holidays
        Equinoxes, harvest days, and local festivals abound: the independence day of the Aletian League from the Launinrach is celebrated, and in certain parts of Aletia its loss to Thursia is also commemorated, depending on one’s apathy to the Thursian Tyranny.
Burial Rites
        Burial proscriptions are followed across the population, though generally to the lowest degree (i.e., both Crinians and Dytics being buried in some form of wooded plot or area: distance is not a big issue). Of course, fundamentalist or reformist sects vary.
Marriage Customs
Laws vary between states, though all states (except the weird ones) recognize marriages and hierarchies ordained in other regions: consequently, matriarchal, patriarchal, and “double-sovereign” marriages are all common across the region.
Art
Developed and refined, with a strong tradition of sculpture, historiography, and calligraphy.
Language
Dytic among the elite and as a lingua franca among middle-class and urban locals, Aletic Crinian or Old Aletnha else.
Fashion and Dress
Varying, with Dytics often adopting colorful Crinian tunic-cape costumes or fusions of Dytic and Crinian wear: conservative Dytics adhere more to standard Dytic dress, which has acquired a connotation as formalwear as much as ethnic costume.
Architecture
Primarily Crinian, with Dytic architecture reserved for liturgical use and replicated in stone or plaster rather than in wood.
Central Dytikratia | Triskelion
Alternative names: Triskelion (Cri.), Triscali (Imp.), Regnum Dytica in Triscali (Imp.), Trischel (Laun.)
Triskelion | Situations
Major | Triskelion | The Despotate of Triskelion
The preeminent power in the region, the Despotate of Triskelion (Keroling Trischel), is a Junior Hegemon, and a traditionally neutral power in the Dytikratia. It is stable, agrarian, and reasonably centralized. It is also the kingmaker in the struggle for Aletia.
Minor | Triskelion | The Keroling Succession
Keroling claimants to the throne of Triskelion are fairly common, thanks to Triskelion’s history of marriage diplomacy. Historically, external succession has proceeded without issue: presently, with tensions in the Dytikratia flaring, the question of who will succeed the throne of Triskelion and where their sympathies will lie is critical.


Triskelion | Divisions and Polities
Triskelion refers just to the roughly triangular region of Triskelion.
Triskelion is ruled by the Despotate of Triskelion, or Keering Triskelion (for the ruling dynasty) Established independently in Crinian land, and at no point subject to the Launinrach (but frequently an ally), Triskelion enjoys a legitimacy and security in its position that no other Hegemon does: fittingly, its borders have not changed for more than a century, and its last mobilization was as part of a grand coalition against Thursia that ultimately forced it to back down. Triskelion enjoys good relations with the Launinrach and cordial relations with the Aletian League, neutral relations with Thursia, and frosty (but civil) relations with Lydion.
Triskelion | Economy and Military
Economic Base
Triskelion is a developed subsistence agrarian economy, enjoying moderate amounts of trade and centralization: it has a reasonably developed resource and craft industry, albeit disproportionately controlled by Aletian merchants. The rulers of Triskelion are, as with most other Dytic states, agrarians: the wealth of the state is primarily from agriculture and taxation. Despite the marginal value of the land, consistent and well-maintained irrigation and infrastructural projects have allowed Triskelion to maintain a fairly high standard of living.
Specializations
Triskelion exports minor surpluses of nearly all agricultural and resource products, including grains, meats, fish, stone, metals, and basic tools. Triskelioner beer is noted as particularly good, though in reality it is not significantly better than any other region.
Military
        Triskelion has a tribal/vassal muster system supplemented by a large, semi-professional Despot’s Retinue: this force exists within the tribal muster system, but functionally acts as a centralized army. This system is stable, with vassals strongly subordinated to the Crown, though the system has not been institutionally de-emphasized or made administrative. Consequently, Triskelion arguably represents the “best-case scenario” for a tribal muster, and is more effective than its mis-modernized neighbor in Lydion, but its military is at a dead end in terms of capacity.
        Triskelion has mechs, though very few (one or two squads, maximum). Its doctrine doesn't place undue value on mechs, and arguably can do better than the mech-obsessed armies of much of Aletia by virtue of a competent understanding of infantry doctrine (and mobile light artillery).
        Triskelion owns a small green-water navy that closely coordinates with the Aletian League to take on some regional duties for commercial protection and oceanic territorial control: the latter duty isolates Lydion from direct contact with Aletian commerce, and limits the possibility of privateering of raiding. Generally, Triskelion acts as a buffer state between Aletia and Lydion, though it favors Aletia due to the latter’s diplomatic repugnance.
Triskelion | Culture and Society
Caste / Faith and Religion
        Triskelion enforces caste and has State Ertsakism as its official religion, being relatively stable with a fairly large Dytic minority. Adopting an assimilationist policy, Triskelion holds that both patrilineal and matrilineal marriages between Dytics and Triskelionite Crinians produce Dytic-eligible children, if they speak Dytic languages and adopt Dytic practices. This policy has allowed the Dytic class in Triskelion to expand gradually and rendered Triskelion stable at a roughly 30-40% Dytic or Dyticized minority elite.
Holidays
Equinoxes, harvest days. No state festivals. Triskelionite native Hellebore Festival (flower festival) for New Years.
Burial Rites
Mixed Dytic and Crinian. Legally enforced, but modified, restrictions: burial must be one kilometer from a human habitation and forested, but need not be one kilometer from any construction. 
Marriage Customs
Patrilineal Dytic, matrilineal Crinean: both are permitted, though a condition of ascension to Dytic caste is the adoption of patrilineal customs.
Art
Flower cultivation and bonsai are prized in Triskelion, and strains of flowers from Triskelion are famous across the Dytikratia. Art is otherwise fairly typical, though much of Triskelion’s talent goes to Aletia to study and produce works. 
Language
Dytic among the elite and as a general lingua franca, Triskelionite (Southern Aletic) Crinian and some Old Triskelionite else.
Fashion and Dress
Standard Dytic among the elite and Dyticized class, Aletic Crinian along the coast, and semi-Dyticized or Triskelionite Aletnha inland. Leather variations on these clothes are considered a national hallmark of Triskelion.
Architecture
Wooden, though abandoning the walled nature of normal Dytic architecture for the Lydionite cluster-of-houses village structure. The capital is constructed primarily out of brick, with the local stone being unsuitable for building. The Despot’s Palace was once known as the Little Tapestry Compound, for its collection of Kormestin banners: following a major fire roughly a century ago, the collection was not replaced and the moniker faded.
Southern Dytikratia | Lydion
Lydion | Situations
Major | Lydion | The Despotate of Lydion
The preeminent power in the region, the Despotate of Lydion, is a struggling Junior Hegemon: poor, tyrannical, isolated, and arrogant. Saved from collapse only by a lack of nearby rivals to destroy itself against, the Despotate’s weak administration and nominal control over Lydion make it a poor ally- but an easily-dislodged opponent.


Major | Heratid Gate | The Kerdaghite Question
Kerdaghite influence grows in Lydion, and along the Heratid Gate trail specifically. While silent for now, the Kerdaghites are already the strongest political force in south Lydion- and they are only set to grow stronger. Under the Despotate of Lydion, the radicalization of the Kerdaghites will happen eventually- the only question is how.


Minor | Lydion | Marsh Ordinium
Rumors of Ordinium in the Lydionite marshes filters up to Imperial officials. While comparatively simple to mine, the region is inhospitable and the returns are expected to be low.


Minor | Heratid Gate | Lake Ordinium
Deep Ordinium deposits have been found in the lakes of Lydion and the Heratid Gate. Expensive to develop and mine, these deposits are nonetheless incredibly valuable.


Minor | Lydion | A Lydionite Identity
The average Dytic, Crinian, and Lydionite peasants in Lydion have more in common with each other than their respective ethnic elites. Can a new, and distinct, identity emerge from these three components?


Minor | Lydion | Coal and Oil
Lydion has extensive coal deposits and oilfields, though neither are well-known or exploitable at present without significant investment.


Lydion | Divisions and Polities
“Lydion” generally refers to both the Lydianite Peninsula and the Heratid Gate sub-regions.
Lydion is ruled by the Despotate of Lydion (Lydionite Despotate): see above. Inner villages are ruled by local chiefs, petty counts, and headmen, with little state interference.
Lydion | Economy and Military
Economic Base
Lydion is poor, mountainous, and marshy, having been an underpopulated backwater from Crinian days up until now. The Despotate of Lydion can only exercise real control over the outer peninsula with fluctuating levels of control over the interior and the lake region. Nonetheless, it does draw tribute and taxation from much of that area. Lydion contains few resources of note, but does contain a small amount of Ordinium submerged in its marshes, with the potential to discover a medium deposit beneath the lakes (at significant expense to extract).
The Heratid Gate in the south of Lydion differs, being cold and inhospitable, but also a regional Crinian trade center and benefiting from the infrastructure and trade developed then. Exploitation and heavy taxation of the route have greatly diminished its commercial profitability, though it remains a relatively large portion of Lydion’s revenues. The city of Heratid Gate itself is greatly diminished from its original size, and has moved up onto a hill.
Lydion’s political center is Colma (Cri.: Kolmaia), a fairly large regional city known primarily for its segregation of wealth and squalor by riverbank, and its major military barracks situated on an island in a former summer palace.
Specializations
The Heratid Gate route has significant potential for trade, but is dilapidated and over-taxed. 
Lydion exports various craft products (earthenwares and arms in particular) at low levels.
Lydion has the potential to discover both coal and oil in its marshes: the former is known, but underdeveloped and thought to be low-quality, while the latter is still unknown.
Military
        Lydion’s military is split between a modernized Despot’s Army with expensive weapons and training and decentralized tribal retinues and militias in traditional Dytic fashion. The former is impressive on paper, but lacks the logistical and institutional support to truly punch on par with other native armies, let alone Imperial forces: its limited size also reduces its capabilities. The latter were traditionally highly cohesive and effective at territorial defense, but have been de-emphasized with Lydion’s outward policy focus, and are now de-professionalized, dubiously loyal, and difficult to muster. Reportedly, firearm use is even falling out of fashion in remoter sections of Lydion.
Lydion | Culture and Society
Caste / Faith and Religion
        Lydion’s caste system is one of the softest of all regions, being fairly formal on paper, but practically enforced only for the wealthiest Dytics. Most (poorer) Dytics have some Lydionite ancestry, and the boundary between the two has become blurred, to the point where Lydion’s (already marginal) administration is functionally forced to tax and administer everyone outside of the capital as if they were Dytic.
        This “degeneration” is often cited as a reason for Lydion’s stagnation, though it should be noted that Lydion’s primary axis of tension is between rulers and ruled, not between Dytic and native castes: that tension is gone. 
        Lydion is also notably Seeker Dutsaist in nature, with the initial State Ertsakist surge having shrunk back to a plurality in the Lydionite nobility and capital only: elsewhere, Seekers are a slim majority, and State Ertsakism only a fifth to a third of the population. Lydion is also a hotspot for Kerdaghite conversion, though for now the Kerdaghites are politically marginalized and inactive.
Holidays
Equinoxes, harvest days, occasional (limited-scope) state festivals aping those of Thursia. 
Burial Rites
Mixed Dytic, Crinian, and Lydionite: burial proscriptions are generally observed by all three groups, but not legally enforced.
Marriage Customs
Varying matriarchal and patriarchal practices, with either common (but no “dual heads”), but no nationwide legal definitions. 
Art
Largely standard: minor distinction in pottery, woodwork.
Language
Dytic among the elite and enforced in the capital, Lydionite Crinian or Old Lydnha
else.
Fashion and Dress
Standard Dytic across all ethnic groups, though out of genuine poverty as much as performative poverty. 
Architecture
Wooden, though abandoning the walled nature of normal Dytic architecture for the Lydionite cluster-of-houses village structure. The capital is constructed primarily out of brick, with the local stone being unsuitable for building. The Despot’s Palace was once known as the Little Tapestry Compound, for its collection of Kormestin banners: following a major fire roughly a century ago, the collection was not replaced and the moniker faded.
  

Central Crinia | Dionaea Magna
Alternative names: Dionia
  Dionaea Magna | Divisions and Polities
Gameplay Divisions Recommendations
By order of granularity.
            1. Dionaea (Double Union), Divestion (Dionaean Front), Erimaeus (Erimaean Front), Desolate Erimaeus, Iomates, Sluice March
            2. Dionaea ke Divestion, Erimaeus, Desolate Erimaeus, Iomates, Sluice March
            3. Dionaea ke Divestion, Erimaeus, Desolate Erimaeus, Iomates
            4. Dionaea ke Divestion, Erimaeus, Iomates
            5. Dionaea Magna
Buildings, Resources, and Landmarks
The Double Union plays host to the Consecrated and Hanging Markets, the commercial center of Dionaea Magna and the population center of the Double Union.
The Double Union exports wines and sugars: port from northwest Dionaea is particularly renowned. It also has a strong glassmaking tradition, with major lead mines. The Double Union imports luxuries from across Crinia, and major staple crop and meat imports from Iomates. It also imports some slaves.
The Dionaean Front exports light bipedal mechs specialized for guerrilla and anti-infantry warfare, composing a large portion of the state’s revenue. The state has a monopoly on lead imports and a state paper company, and the Dionaean Front produces a wide variety of print media for export. The Dionaean Front imports food.
Erimaeus exports staple crops and raw materials to Dionaea.
Erimaeus and Dionaea are major destinations for escaped slaves.
Iomates produces a large amount of meat for export across Crinia. It also imports some slaves.
Iomates exports raw materials and staple crops to the Double Union. Iomates does not have a central port: its coast has many natural harbors and deep waters that make major port cities largely unnecessary.
Iomates draws revenue from pilgrimages, as does the Ecumenical Governorate. The Ecumentical Governorate has a medium Ordinium deposit under it.
The Governorate has the Cathedral Mausoleum, a grave to the last Avoraschild.
The Governorate creates exquisite lacework pieces, though there is currently no export demand.
Western Dionaea Magna | Dionaea[n]
Alternative names: Dionia (Imp.), Dionaea ke Divestion (Cri.), Agia Dionaea (Keeper)
Dionaea | Situations
Major | Dionaea | The Monastic Union
        The Monastic Union is the center of Merouldist power across the Basin and a bureaucratic, religious state dating back to the days of empire. Its property and estates dominate the economies of much of Dionaea Magna and Crinia Proper, while its agents enjoy extraterritoriality and the ear of many rulers across the basin.
Minor | Dionaea | The Merouldist Union
        The Merouldist Union is the “independent” hinterland of the Monastic Union, and deceptively peaceful for the past century. The rise of the Dawnguard has enabled and galvanized a previously silenced dissent, and the Union increasingly presses for autonomy and a liberalization of the Monastic Union’s imperial rule.
 Major | Dionaea | The Dionaean Front
        The Dionaean Front is a heavily-populated regional power and exporter of abolitionism founded by maroons that has since fallen under Monastic hegemony: with many associate and subject abolitionist states and cells across the Basin. Presently, the Front’s collaborationist leadership falters, threatened by radical abolitionists and Dawnguard adherents, a powder keg waiting to explode.
Major | Dionaea | The Yellow Scarves
        The Dionaean Front’s Yellow Scarves are renowned as a mechanized expeditionary and advisory force, though their interference with internal affairs is well-known. The Yellow Scarves lean pro-Double Union, but less so than the political elite of the Front: as a largely conscript force, the army is fairly responsive to the political climate.
Major | Dionaea | The Dawnguard
        The Dawnguard is a pan-Crinian, moralist, reactionary movement that rivals the Monastic Union in influence among the lower classes. Nominally integrated into the Merouldist hierarchy, the Dawnguard continues to grow explosively and seemingly no closer to true integration. Particularly, the Double Union and Dionaean Front compete to capture the Dawnguard to their respective causes, while embracing or containing its ideological spread.
Major | Dionaea | The Orders
        The Orders of the Monastic Union are the methods by which it extends its tendrils across the Crinian Basin, and organizes most of its personnel. The orders control inquisition/policing, army, navy, as well as the five Missionary Orders influencing the nobility, the Dutsaist heresies, the Wanderers/Ertsakists, the Church’s estates, and the Merouldist Union.
Minor | Dionaea | The Consecrated and Hanging Markets
        The markets of the Double Union are renowned as centers of trade and luxury, and as a major tradeport in the center of the Basin. In particular, the twin cities founded around the Consecrated Market and the Hanging Market serve as hubs for trade between Dionaea ke Divestion and the mainland, and from Dionaea Magna to Ekilos.


Dionaea | Divisions and Polities
The Merouldist Union of the Elect and the Monastic Union of the Keepers of the Flame are two religious states centered on the isle of Dionaea proper collectively referred to as the Double Union.
The Monastic Union is the center of Merouldist power across the Crinian Basin, dating back to Imperial times as a subject institution but now operating independently in the absence of a recognized higher authority. It is a council of five Elder, five Younger, and five Processional monasteries: the Elder Monasteries predate the fall of Crinia, the Younger postdate it, and the Processionals are the united and rebuilt remnants of Merouldist religious elites displaced during the Collapse and afterward. The monasteries compete for influence and wealth, though in an oligarchic fashion with relatively low political stakes.
The Monastic Union controls significant estates across the Basin, and particularly in Dionaea Magna, where its decisions have significant impacts on the lay powers. The Monastic Union does not exercise territorial sovereignty outside of the grounds of its historical monasteries, though it reserves extraterritoriality rights throughout the Basin, and as far as the Launinrach.
Critically, the Monastic Union nominally controls the Dawnguard, a primarily-Merouldist lower-class pan-Crinian religious movement that was loosely integrated into the Keeper hierarchy, but still retains an uncomfortable degree of independence and radicalism. Notably, the Dawnguard and the Monastic Union estates hold comparable levels of influence in different regions (deeply rural/highly urban zones for the Dawnguard, developed estate-regions and royal palaces for the Monastic Union).
The Merouldist Union is the expression of the Monastic Union’s temporal power, with its policy subject to the Monastic Union’s will and most of its key oversight and advisory posts filled by Merouldist clergy. Formally, it is recognized as a provisional civilian government established by the Monastic Union, and is controlled as such. Though normally rigidly subject to the Monastic Union, the Dawnguard have rapidly taken root as a dissenting/resistance movement among the populace due to being endorsed by the Union and thus not subject to suppression or ban as other movements were.
The Dionaean Abolitionist Front is a polity located on the island of Divestion, founded by a community of maroons and augmented by a tradition of clerical education and literacy that have produced an unusually ideological state. In contrast to its slaving Merouldist neighbors, the Dionaean Front is radically abolitionist. However, the Front is smaller than, and in the political sphere of, the Monastic Union.
The Dionaean Front is known as an “abolitionists’ hegemon” across the Crinian basin. Being politically dominated/pressured by the Monastic Union, the Front is rigidly anti-Kerdaghite and abnormally silent on slavery in Dionaea, while its influence overseas in abolitionist states and cells is significant but generally much more moderate and restrained than in its partners or subjects. Its power and influence make it an indispensable ally for any abolitionist or progressive state in the Crinian basin, but the Front is also known as a mouthpiece for the Monastic Union’s policy, which is primarily focused on checking and curbing the radicalism and power of abolitionist movements across Crinia.
(Mostly legal) opposition groups (DF-Opposition) in the Front historically took and presently take constitutionalist, secularist, decolonial stances and called out slavery in the Double Union. Presently that opposition has been challenged by the rise of the Dawnguard (DF-Dawnguard) as an alternative (zealot, pan-Crinian unificationist, and moralist rather than traditionally abolitionist) force. The Dionaean Front is ruled by a conservative, nominally Merouldist junta aligned with the Double Union (DF-Junta)[1].
Political Leaders
The current “first among equals” in the Monastic Union is the aged Advisor to the Avoraschild Pelos XII Euratyid[o], a corrupt and debauched (though largely aged out of his worst excesses) leader who is only a decade or less from stepping down.
Major monastery leaders are called Grand Abbots. Major missionary order leaders are called Master Missionaries, and usually assigned one per region. The titles of Grandmaster and Grand Abbot are formally separate, but generally held by a single person representing their Processional Monastery.
The exception to this rule is the Monastery of Kione II Avoraschild, the monastery in charge of the powerful Order to the Houses: its Grand Abbot and its Grandmaster are not the same, the latter currently being directly involved in the struggle for the Gold Horn.
The leader of the Merouldist Union is Governor Ioannes Kouliki, a reluctant servant of the Monastic Union and a hidden Dawnguard sympathizer- though too orthodox for the movement himself.
The DAF is led by a Presiding General (currently one Kerýneia Routhénias (DF-Junta))[p], a collaborationist and an archetypical Junta member: politically competent, Merouldist, and cynical about abolition. The DF is otherwise led by Generals for all governor, minister, or general-equivalent roles.
The recognized opposition ideologies in the Dionaean Front are the DF-Opposition (secular, abolitionist, decolonial, liberal or left) and the DF-Dawnguard (syncretic zealot, abolitionist, pan-Crinian. authoritarian).


Dionaea | Economy and Military
Economic Base
        The Merouldist Union is a slave state, dominated by Keeper clergy elites and plantation-masters. It closely resembles the Old Crinian system, albeit shrunken in scale. While reasonably prosperous, its luxuries and craft goods are generally imported rather than domestically produced: the Union instead exports cash crops, particularly wines and sugars.
        The Monastic Union is dependent on the Merouldist Union’s resources, being more properly a set of extraterritorial citadels or monasteries whose economies are founded on the dividends of their estates and tithes from the Merouldist Union.
        The Dionaean Front has established a national monopoly over the estates that formerly occupied the region, but productivity has suffered as land is converted to subsistence agriculture to support the ballooning population, and a lack of willing trade partners depresses export opportunities. Consequently, the land-monopoly has evolved into a fully state-controlled production system, though freedom of movement is preserved and taxes are not high (the state’s revenues instead coming from arms trades and monopolies).
        Both the Front and the Double Union suffer from a relative lack of easy harbors, with steep limestone cliffs around much of the isles’ coasts. They do lend themselves to some stunning vistas, however.
Specializations
        The Monastic Union’s monasteries and religious leaders own property across the Basin, and the dividends flow into the increasingly-opulent cathedrals and palatial complexes of the Double Union, in sharp contrast to the stagnant and miserable (but relatively stable) lot of the slaves in the region. Exotic goods as varied as Triskelionite beers and Kormestin claret suits flow in and out of the Double Union, which has acquired a reputation as a major trade center for luxuries. 
        The Double Union’s largest cities are the Consecrated Market and the Hanging Market (known collectively as the Consecrated and Hanging Markets), founded on the eastern and western points of the strait entering the bay respectively. The cities are named Markets due to their origins as market towns for monasteries: now, the monasteries are surrounded and subsumed by the cities.
        The Consecrated Market is the newer of the two, but the first to be recognized: it plays host to three of the five Processional Monasteries, and consequently ballooned in size. Founded on the relatively gentler western point, it is a bustling- but largely typical- port city.
The Hanging Market was built on the eastern, cliff-faced point due to a desire for seclusion from the twin Elder and Younger monasteries above the cliffs. With the increasing imperial opulence of the monasteries, said trade grew lucrative enough to outclass the difficulty of building a market under a cliff, and the city instead expanded into and up the cliffs, taking advantage of the deeper waters and vertical arrangement of the city to turn the market into a dense, developed shipping hub.
        The Double Union is a known producer of glass, with several lead mines and a strong glassblowing and stained glass tradition.
        The Dionaean Front has one of the few mech-producing foundries still active in the Crinian Basin, albeit merely a super-light “scout mech” foundry- little better than powered armor. Still, these mechs significantly outclass virtually any purely- infantry force in the Basin, and serve as the backbones of many abolitionist or abolitionist-friendly states’ militaries. They also bring in massive revenues to the Front, which also holds a monopoly over the parts and expertise needed to repair these mechs.
        The Dionaean Front has a highly advanced literary and printing culture, with a developed state-controlled paper milling industry. In tandem with a state monopoly on lead imports from the Double Union and state control of land (and hence of forestry), the Dionaean Junta has control over most of the major inputs for publishing (type, pulp, paper) and a strong brake via tariffs and licenses on the remainder (inks, printmaking licenses, labor). Combined, these pressures allow the DF-Junta to exercise informal censorship despite a 
        Notably, these mechs fill a niche not filled by Polar mechs, being specifically designed for stealth and guerrilla forest warfare, at the cost of generally underpowered specs and notorious vulnerabilities to artillery or other mechs. 
Military
        The Monastic Union has a number of Orders, including a formal military-policing arm, the Most Solar Order of Inquisition (the Inquisition). The Double Union primarily conducts war through a formally Merouldist Union force called the Most Celestial Order of the Sacred Heart (the Heartsorder), led by Monastic officer corps, as the population base in the Monastic Union simply doesn’t exist.
        The Merouldist Union, under Monastic control, operates a powerful (though reduced from its peak) green-water navy that polices the waters of Dionaea (the Order of the Embers upon the Oceans) or the Order of the Oceans. Operating with imported heavy artillery and armor, the Double Union navy primarily possesses the capacity to decimate the Dionaean Front’s major industrial and population centers.
        The Dionaean Front specializes in light arms and munitions production, and even features one of the few mech fabricators in the equatorial belt. It operates a mechanized, elite expeditionary and advisory force that projects its power across the basin, while its arms supplying and resource support (and political domination) to the various abolitionist cells and states across the Basin have essentially turned the Front into a thalassocratic empire. 
The Yellow Scarves are the official Dionaean military. Dionaea uses their expertise and particularly mech advantages to make the Yellow Scarves indispensable to burgeoning abolitionist movements, often outright replacing or absorbing those cells' paramilitary wings or militaries into the Yellow Scarves' system, which relies heavily on training in Dionaea and a system of universal indoctrination-conscription[q]. After an abolitionist movement succeeds, the Yellow Scarves act like the US military in client states: ostensibly there just as advisors and supplementary units, but functionally representing the military force of the state and therefore exerting political control over that state.
The Yellow Scarves also act as a major source of immigration to Dionaea, with many former Yellow Scarves in client states permanently staying in the powerful, urban, wealthy, Dionaean state with full citizenship.
Inland Divestion (the island the Front is located on) is mountainous and still relatively forested, despite the high population density of the Front: historically, Monastic Union expeditions into the Front have failed to penetrate the interior even if the coast could be occupied temporarily (especially since the MU’s heavy mech lances are significantly inferior to the Front’s crack light lances, which excel in guerrilla warfare and outnumber the MU’s more traditional forces by nearly an order of magnitude: the Unionist supply lines cannot be sustained). The Front also maintains universal conscription, with all able-bodied citizens receiving military training.
This leads to a curious situation where the Dionaean Front’s domestic political leadership is primarily Junta, but due to the meritocratic and universal nature of the military Opposition and Dawnguard generals do exist in high positions, particularly in overseas positions.
Dionaean Fronters customarily identify themselves with their clique affiliation: in informal or internal settings, these cliques tend toward the highly specific (“Toura Kitarotes, Socialabolitionist-Right) and are usually just interesting identifiers rather than sources of conflict. Larger affiliators, often attached to the name of the Front itself (“Toura Kitarotes, DF-Opposition”), are used in formal settings or in international use, and carry much more weight.
Dionaea | Culture and Society
Faith and Religion
        Dionaea is universally Merouldist-dominated. The Double Union are almost entirely Merouldist, while the Front is around fifty percent Merouldist (including both zealots and cultural/semi-agnostic Merouldists), with immigration and a strong secularist movement accounting for the Front’s different religious landscape. In all cases, the ruling class is Merouldist: the Front’s opposition was traditionally secular.
        Dionaea features a powerful Dawnguard movement (modeled somewhat after fascism) that the Monastic Union seeks to control and limit. In turn, the Merouldist Union contends with a growing Dawnguard movement as an opportunity to obtain political opportunity (or a threat to the existing regime), while the Dionaean Front is thrown out of balance by the appearance of the Dawnguard as a third political pole.
        The Dawnguard, despite being lower-class, pan-Crinian, and moralist, is functionally a big-tent protest movement in Dionaea. In the Front, it takes on an expansionist, class-conflict, abolitionist lean (critically, even endorsing some Kerdaghite ideals): in the Double Union, it takes on an independence-favoring, fundamentalist-reformer, paramilitary form: across the Monastic Union’s sphere of influence, it varies from a bandit ideology to a religious reformation to a state-sponsored “nationalist” faith.
        The Front’s Dawnguard movement could plausibly become formally Kerdaghite, particularly if the influence of Kerdaghites in the northwest Basin expands.
        The Monastic Union is governed by a theocratic council of the fifteen monastic leaders (the Fifteen (Grand) Abbots) headed by the Advisor to the Avoraschild, (Advisor, A.A): an elected position superior to the Grand Abbots and theoretically second only to the Crinian ruler (i.e. a Steward of Gondor situation).
        The Double Union operates five Missionary Orders under the control of the Processional Monasteries: these being the Missionary Order to the Seven Houses (the Order to the Houses, delegated with ensuring the loyalty and orthodoxy of Crinian rulers and aristocrats); the Missionary Order to the Eternals (the Order to the Eternals, formerly tasked with integrating the Eternals: now tasked with containing their influence along with that of the Seekers); the Missionary Order to the Marches and Wanderers (the Order to the Marches, enacting conversion and education efforts in rural regions and against the Wanderers and Crinian/State Ertsakists: largest, but least prestigious); the Missionary Order to the Estates (Order to the Estates, acting as administrators and officials in the church’s vast estates across the Basin); and the Missionary Order to the Faithful (Order to the Faithful, acting as the church’s controlling presence in the Merouldist Union and its primary arm of recruitment/promotion).
Holidays
        Solar eclipses are closely tracked, and are the principal festivals of the various states on the isles. The Double Union celebrates feast days for each of its Monasteries (fifteen in total) as well as the anniversary of Yav Merould’s death (the latter having become a religious hero). New Years and harvests are also celebrated.
        In the Dionaean Front, solar eclipses, New Years, harvests, and Merould’s Day are celebrated. The Day of Revolution and the accession of the Front’s current Presiding General are celebrated, as are the anniversaries of the three failed invasions of the Double Union: current leadership tends to crack down on these celebrations, notably.
Burial Rites
        Burial is most common, followed by cremation. Cliff burial is a tradition unique to the region, in which individuals are buried inside limestone cliffs and their remains cremated in situ, with the resulting lime-ash material slaked and sealed back into the cliff walls. 
Marriage Customs
        Generally monogamous: moderated by Merouldist clergy, though the Front has let this doctrine lapse due to a general antipathy to the foreign clergy in the region.
Art
        Primarily architectural, with some of the best examples of marble architecture in Tundra. With centuries to develop each monastery, the fifteen monasteries are architectural dreams: the five Processional Monasteries, in particular, display a continuum of styles from extinct Crinian subcultures through fusion with the Dionaean and central Crinian styles into distinctly modern and unique architectural traditions, all in opulent and expansive splendor. On the flip side, none of this value compares remotely to an average Imperial governorate world (or House Aleph’s super-citadel).
Language
        Greek-like, very standard Crinian.
        The Dionaean Front is very explicitly political in its language: expect Dionaeans to couch a lot of references in political terms and speak in terms of politics. Where a Dytic might say “I’m not sure that Governor’s ear thing seems legitimate”, the Dionaean Fronter might say “As a Dionaean, I would align with the stance of the opposition (in this circumstance specifically, while retaining general ideological compatibility with the governing generalship) in expressing disapproval rather than caution toward the Governor’s autocratic and anocratic governance, albeit with considerations of strategic allyship with the PARTY - despite their bureaucratic rather than ideological basis of unity - which… uh, I would place the Governor’s ear in the context of a history of radicalization and weaponization of the state rather than an event itself, per se. What was the question?”
        …At least, that’s the stereotype.
Fashion and Dress
        Crinian standard: tunic, cloak, robe. Liturgical vestments originally made use of armor-like (decorative) plates and jewelry, though conservative refinements to those patterns over time have instead resulted in patterned, subtle cloth surcoats as the priestly pattern.
        Dionaean Front citizens also adhere to Crinian standard, though they often incorporate elements of military/partisan uniforms, as a plurality if not majority of Dionaean Front inhabitants are veterans or immigrants incorporated into the military structure of Dionaea. Dionaeans are particularly known for their yellow weld-dyed scarves: a surplus of production in the government-run plantations of Divestion have made weld dyes cheaply available and hence iconic, to the degree that abolitionism is associated with the color yellow in the Crinian Basin.
Architecture
        Mostly stone-based, with Crinian-standard tiled roofs and plaster use. 
Northwestern Dionaea Magna | Erimaeus[r][s][t]
Erimaeus | Situations
 Major | Erimaeus | Desolate Erimaeus (The Titans)
        Erimaeus is home to the Mechanical Titans, an unknown number of gargantuan war machines that share strange similarities with Siadset’s walking cities. Decrepit, but still actively gassing and bombing to the environment of Erimaeus, the walking cities have been officially deemed Demons by all four Dutsaist sects.
Major | Erimaean Front | Titanstrike[u]
        The EAF was founded on unsafe ground. Titanstrikes in the region have lulled for the past fifty years, and the Despotate encroaches further and further into Desolate Erimaeus. It’s only a matter of time before a catastrophic Titanstrike, but surely it won’t be today. Or tomorrow. The years pass by on tomorrows.
Major | Dionaea Magna | The Dawnguard
        The Dawnguard is a pan-Crinian, moralist, reactionary movement that rivals the Monastic Union in influence among the lower classes. Nominally integrated into the Merouldist hierarchy, the Dawnguard continues to grow explosively and seemingly no closer to true integration. Particularly, the Double Union and Dionaean Front compete to capture the Dawnguard to their respective causes, while embracing or containing its ideological spread.
Minor | Erimaean Front | The Yellow Scarves
        The Yellow Scarves (as “advisors”, “foreign legions”, and “mechanised attachments”) control the Erimaean military and have functionally puppeted the Erimaean government. While abolitionist unity (and Dionaean power) remains unchallengeable now, the future may bring change.
Minor | Erimaean Front | Districts
        The Erimaean Front organizes itself into tightly-settled districts next to empty wasteland, to minimize its geographical extent and mitigate the risks of Titanstrike. If the Erimaean state’s capacity declines, or its legitimacy fades, this system may break down.
Minor | Erimaean Front | Cultural Ertsakism
        Crinians fleeing the Dytikratia’s caste system often subscribe to “Cultural Ertsakism”- a varied set of Wanderer cultural practices and linguistic features- despite being devoutly Seeker or Keeper. This group forms a somewhat discriminated minority in the EAF, and has a particularly strong presence in the east (the highest-risk, least integrated zones).
Erimaeus | Divisions and Polities
Erimaeus is divided into the Erimaean Abolitionist Front and Desolate Erimaeus. The former is a frontier state closely tied to the Dionaean Front that settled the outermost lands of Erimaeus. The risk of a Titan strike is high in the region, but the absence of a slaver authority in the region has attracted maroons and abolitionists nonetheless. With Titan activity remaining inside the inner Desolation and away from populated areas over the past half-century, the EAF has rapidly expanded. New immigrants to the region have never experienced and do not fear Titanstrikes, or else consider them a risk worth taking for freedom. The EAF runs on a rural commune system, albeit with rigidly defined and closely-packed commune boundaries organized into districts. As a legacy of slavery, the EAF has a significant degree of local democracy and a democratized justice system: this comes at the cost of a largely autocratic central government, with affairs beyond the local kept in central rule.
The recognized parties in the EAF are the EF-Frontierist (domestic moderate conservative), EF-Liberationist (anti-Iomates, radical abolitionist), the EF-Junta (Dionaean puppets in coalition with the Frontierists), and the EF-Ertaskists (minority party). The EF-Dawnguard is officially banned, but when it is referenced or if it were to become prominent (EF-Dawnguard) would be the official suffix.
Political Leaders
        The EAF is led by General Iav[2] of Erimaeus (EF-Frontierist)[v], a regional leader trained in the Dionaean Front and staunchly in favor of (controlled) eastern expansion. Unusually, he has been granted a significant degree of free control over local Dionaean forces, in concession to his political clout in Dionaea: this has worsened fears in Iomates about the EAF’s independence and potential as a military adversary (compared to the distant DAF). 
        
        
Erimaeus | Economy and Military
Economic Base
        The EAF is an agrarian, collectivist state. Districts are densely populated and intensively cultivated, and expansion happens in a regulated district-by-district march (though loose settlement at a much lower intensity across the region is common). This policy was originally intended to minimize the risk of Titanstrike: it also serves to maintain the EAF’s collectivist system and permit easier policing and organization.
        Desolate Erimaeus is heavily forested in irregular lines and patterns, between which large expanses of scorched and chemically-desolated wastelands exist. No economy exists in the region, though some native Erimaeans (hunter-gatherers) live in the forests and Siadset’s Illastorai occasionally raid across the region. Attempts at settlement in the forested regions have quickly drawn Titanstrikes, after which the former settlement (now crater, or poisoned waste) is included in the space of future Titanstrikes. Historically, this has resulted in some geographical expansion of Desolate Erimaeus and the observed range of the Titans: debate continues over whether this could result in the Titans eventually “breaking out” in a continuous Titanstrike across the northern Crinian Basin, or if the Titans are confined to Erimaeus.
Specializations
        The EAF is largely a subsistence state, and relatively fertile (if poor): areas under its control are highly developed and cultivated, with centrally-maintained and outlined infrastructure. It is a net exporter of food, though it is not commercialized and maintains most of its surplus internally or as tribute/garrison rations for the Dionaean Front.
Military
        The EAF relies on the light mechs and “military advisors” - a mix of DAF and local conscripts - of the Dionaean Front to police and control its territory. Districts often have their own local militias, but the Dionaean light mechs can easily suppress an unarmored infantry group.
        Neighbor states opposed to the EAF have not launched assaults into the region, both out of fear of Titanstrike and out of consideration of Dionaean intervention into a guerrilla war.
        The Erimaean Desolation’s Titans are walking city-like structures with a seemingly inexhaustible supply of poisons, fires, and bombs with which to decimate the terrain. By all purposes indestructible to the inhabitants of Tundra, the Titans are treated more as forces of nature (or devilry) than military forces. The Titans also mark the westward boundary of the Dytikratia, and slaves or Crinian undercaste serfs escaping across the Desolation into the EAF make up a significant minority of the Erimaean Front.
Erimaeus | Culture and Society
Faith and Religion
        The Erimaean Front is cosmopolitan and immigrant (former slave)-founded, with Seekers a slim plurality. The military is nominally Merouldist (being subject to the Dionaean Front) in character. Notably, the Erimaean Front’s significant refugee minority from the Dytikratia strongly reject any form of Ertsakism and to a lesser degree the Wanderer’s Path, though a small minority of the latter do exist. 
        Notably, “cultural” Ertsakists do exist as a significant minority, being Dutsaist Crinians who have adopted some of the Ertsakist / Wanderer practices: blood-siblings, antler aesthetics, and ascetic “Ertsakist Work Ethic” beliefs. These practices are somewhat discriminated against.
Holidays
        Solar eclipses are celebrated. New Years and harvests are also celebrated, as are solstices and equinoxes (a carryover from the Dytikratia). The previous major Titanstrike is commemorated in a day of mourning, though that holiday has declined significantly in influence and importance.
Burial Rites
        Cremation is most common by far, due to the relative poverty and historical experiences of the refugee population. 
Marriage Customs
        Generally monogamous: performed by custom by Dutsaist priests, generally Seeker and Merouldist (with Kerdaghite clergy being discriminated against by the military).
Art
        Not highly institutionalized or refined given the circumstances of the region, but still vibrant: strong singing and oral history traditions among migrants.
Language
        Greek-like, Crinian, but highly variable in accent due to cosmopolitan origins.
        Erimaeus has a minority of Dytic speakers (culturally Ertsakist): eastern Erimaeus particularly so.
Fashion and Dress
        An evolution of Crinian lower-class wear, favoring shortened tunics (shirts) and knee-length robes and cloaks with padding or fill. Quilted clothing is extremely common, and quilting is commonly used.
Architecture
        Plaster-based, with wood additions and occasional stone construction. Generally wooden shingles instead of tiles: very much pre-industrial in appearance.
Northeastern Dionaea Magna | Iomates[w]
Iomates | Situations
Major | Iomates | The Despotate of Iomates
        The Despotate of Iomates is a Merouldist Crinian state, descended from Crinian nobility. It is debatably the crown jewel in the Double Union’s soft empire, though at the same time independent and slaving. Under Despot Alla IV Iomatid, it seeks to reinforce slavery, annex the Ecumenical Governorate, accommodate the Dawnguard, and blunt the power of the E.A.F.
Major | Sluice March | The Ecumenical Governorate
        The Ecumenical Governorate is a provisional authority established over the site of the last Avoraschild’s death, being the only major city in the Sluice March and the principal pilgrimage site for Merouldists. The people in the region are overwhelmingly Kerdaghite, surviving only under increasingly-begrudging Dionaean protection.
Major | Dionaea Magna | The Dawnguard
        The Dawnguard is a pan-Crinian, moralist, reactionary movement that rivals the Monastic Union in influence among the lower classes. Nominally integrated into the Merouldist hierarchy, the Dawnguard continues to grow explosively and seemingly no closer to true integration. Particularly, the Double Union and Dionaean Front compete to capture the Dawnguard to their respective causes, while embracing or containing its ideological spread.
Minor | Sluice March | The Yellow Scarves
        The Yellow Scarves have a major garrison in the Governorate and have historically propped up the Governorate against Iomates and the Double Union. As the Dionaean Front has swung toward dictatorship under Merouldist Dutsaism and Double Union hegemony, the Governorate has rapidly lost its appeal as a protectorate.
Minor | Iomates | Monastic Dominance
        Monastic Union priests and bureaucrats fill the ranks of the Court, while over a third of Iomates’ estate land is privately owned by the clergy. The Despotate is not quite a puppet, but has close ties to the Double Union- a state magnified by the attitude of its current leader.
Minor | Sluice March | The Legacy of the Five Hundred Days
        Military anarchy during the Five Hundred Days thoroughly depopulated the Sluice March and destroyed its infrastructure, leaving the region vulnerable to repeated sweeps by the Illastorai. Even today, the Sluice March is a ruined region, populated only in the Ecumenical Governorate.
Minor | Sluice March | The Legacy of the Five Hundred Days
        Military anarchy during the Five Hundred Days thoroughly depopulated the Sluice March and destroyed its infrastructure, leaving the region vulnerable to repeated sweeps by the Illastorai. Even today, the Sluice March is a ruined region, populated only in the Ecumenical Governorate.
Minor | Sluice March | Governorate Ordinium
In the dense slums and crowded farming valleys of the Governorate, a wide field of Ordinium lies only a few dozen feet underground. Immensely profitable to develop, there is nonetheless the issue of over a million people crowded on the lands atop.
Minor | Iomates | The Abolitionist Threat
The E.A.F’s rise is draining Iomates of its slave population, encroaching on its land, threatening Titanstrike, and militarily closing on Iomates with every passing day. Relations are tense, and Iomates issues ever more hostile rhetoric despite the Pax Double Uniona[x] between Dionaean-dominated and Double Union-dominated states.


Iomates | Divisions and Polities
Iomates is divided into the Ecumenical Governorate and the Despotate of Iomates.
The Despotate of Iomates covers both Iomates proper and the Sluice March, one of the Five Crinian Marches (Kolasti March, Sluice March, Erimaean March (repl. by EAF), Thursian March, Old March) that traditionally guarded the northern border against the Illastorai and Dytic tribes. The Sluice March is notably underpopulated for a region so close to the Crinian core, a product of the depopulation of the region following the death of the last known Avoraschild in the March and the shattering of their (and their opponents’) armies into a short but intense military anarchy (the Five Hundred Days’ Battle) that thoroughly devastated the region.
Devoutly Merouldist, Iomates is conservative and closely intertwined with a Double Union that owns over a third of its productive land. 
The Ecumenical Governorate is a city-state and a Dionaean protectorate from the original days of the Front. Populated densely by Kerdaghites and to a lesser extent Seekers descended from the Crinian armies in the region during the Five Hundred Days, the Governorate is the easternmost outpost of Kerdaghite power in northern Crinia. 
With the Governorate’s military capacity essentially null and their policing arm in decline, the Kerdaghite population in the region has organized itself along the lines of the EAF into tightly-controlled, devolved communes with a central authority (Palloti’s Advisory Bureau) that decides upon commune borders and (secretly) has military command, but is otherwise powerless.
Political Leaders
The Despot of Iomates is Alla IV Iomatid[y], a vigorous (and vigorously-bearded) leader and committed slaver who has engaged in a rollback of liberalizing practices as the neighboring EAF has expanded. While reasonably pragmatic, he is no statesman, and prioritizes his status and power over the state when push comes to shove.
The Ecumenical Governorate is ruled by a Merouldist and a Dionaean Co-Governorship under Double Union Master Missionary Giorgos Menser (from the Order to the Houses) and General Nikita Koutheli (DF-Opposition), with an indigenous Kerdaghite Advisor Karina Palloti. Koutheli and Palloti’s joint influence keeps the Governorate relatively tolerated by the population, but Koutheli’s replacement is likely to be from the DF-Junta if the DF does not pull out altogether, leaving the Governorate to be annexed and likely ethnically cleansed by Iomates.
Giorgos Menser[z] is a highly competent and conscientious bureaucrat, who nevertheless supports Iomates and seeks to subjugate or destroy the Kerdaghite locals. He is also a devoted Double Union stooge, and staunchly anti-Dawnguard.
Nikita Koutheli is an establishment Oppositionist:[aa] he supports a degree of self-rule and reform in the Governorate, and sees the Yellow Scarves’ occupation with optimistic paternalism. 
Karina Palloti[ab] is a devout, but pragmatic, Kerdaghite of only middling local influence: while expressing strong anticolonial views, she is rigidly and trustable moderate in action on reform, and supports Koutheli in the Governorate to extract the best deal possible rather than out of genuine agreement with his policies. She lacks the regional clout and radical charisma needed to foster resistance, and really only has power in the context of the Governorate.
Gameplay Divisions Recommendations
            1. 3 - Iomates, Sluice March
            2. 2 - Iomates, Sluice March, Governorate
            3. 1 - Iomates
            4. Merge with EAF into Erimaeus ke Iomates
Iomates | Economy and Military
Economic Base
        Iomates is a Crinian plantation economy and a net exporter of food and goods, primarily to the Double Union. As Merouldist and Union influence has shrunk, the proportion of its imports from Iomates has ballooned: arguably, Iomates is as important or even more important than the Merouldist Union to the Monastic Union, though this fact is relatively unconsidered.
        Iomates’ economy is relatively developed up to the borders of the Sluice March, which remains the domain of ruins, maroons, and military outposts several centuries after the fall of Crinia due to the Five Hundred Days and subsequent raids.
        The Ecumenical Governorate’s Kerdaghite population lives in the city around the pilgrimage site and in the surrounding riverlands at dense concentrations (due to Illastorai raiding historically). The Governorate’s poor administration means that the population is largely untracked: in combination with old Dionaean arms programs and a long military heritage, the population is extremely capable of fighting a guerrilla war despite the density and geographical limits of their settlement.
Specializations
        The Ecumenical Governorate’s main tax revenues come from pilgrimage visits from Merouldists, and are largely spent on occupation corruption and/or remitted to the Double Union. The incoming revenue is considerable, and a longstanding envy of Iomates.
        The Ecumenical Governorate also has a medium-sized Ordinium deposit under it, by an odd coincidence. 
        Iomates specializes in ranching and meat production, sending cattle convoys (grain ships from the DU/ mainlands extending the seagoing range/ volume of cattle ships) to the Double Union and even south into the original Crinian peninsula. 
Military
        The military of the Despotate of Iomates is “low” late-period Crinian in nature- a conscript-feudal army supplemented by a professional force, but without mechs and in generally reduced scale. With no access to the imported heavy mechs of the Dytikratia or the light mechs of the Front, Iomates has a distinctly underpowered military for a power of its size and political stability, fuelling its fear of the military-dominated, mechanized EAF. 
        The Ecumenical Governorate has a Dionaean policing garrison that has been greatly reduced in size and capacity over time. Similar Inquisitorial forces withdrew from the Governorate twenty years ago due to unrest against their religious radicalism. Natives of the Sluice March (i.e. descendants of the Crinian forces from the Five Hundred Days) still maintain a high degree of professionalism and war-readiness, with widespread firearm use and repair and a high proliferation of metal armors (including intact Crinian-era heavy pike kit!) However, these forces are not well organized beyond a commune level, and are not even formally militias.
Iomates | Culture and Society
Faith and Religion
        The Despotate of Iomates is Merouldist with an increasing Kerdaghite and Seeker minority (heavily persecuted) moving toward the Sluice March. 
The Dawnguard is strong across Iomates and in line with the Despot: its strong Pan-Crinian character meshes with the Despot’s nationalistic expansionism in rhetoric for now, but is likely to clash in practice. The moralizing, Keeper nature of the Dawnguard is also in line with Iomates’s policies, and Iomates’ branch of the Dawnguard is strongly Merouldist in nature.
The Ecumenical Governorate is primarily Kerdaghite, with privileged Merouldist and Kerdaghite-integrated Seeker minorities. Kerdaghites from the Governorate make up a major component of the Dionaean Front’s original stock, and can be traced as the source of Kerdaghite theological syncretism and influence in the Front.
Holidays
        Solar eclipses are celebrated. New Years and harvests are also celebrated. Far-eastern Iomates commemorates the Titanstrikes, and Iomates celebrates the Despot’s Coronation Day. The Ecumenical Governorate’s population celebrates lunar eclipses and certain coincidences of solar and lunar calendars, but public festivals have been banned by the Merouldist Governorate.
Burial Rites
        Cremation is most common in the Governorate, again due to historical experience and poverty.
        In Iomates, burial is most common, usually with elevated stone cairns or monuments that cover the entire corpse’s length (due to traditions of “bad luck to have one’s grave walked on” interfacing with “lots of cows in the region walk on lots of graves”).
Marriage Customs
        Generally monogamous: performed by Merouldist clergy in Iomates, and by communal heads or leaders in the Governorate.
Art
        Strong singing and oral tradition in the Governorate: strong smithing and metalworking culture, for maintenance of armor and arms. Marksmanship is an organized sport in the Governorate.
        Naturally, the Despotate is a leatherworking and liturgical-working culture: its general arts are well-developed.
Language
        Greek-like, Crinian.
Fashion and Dress
        The Governorate’s clothes derive from former Crinian military kit- i.e., long stockings and long, tight trousers, shirts, and sashes meant to form a cohesive uniform under armor: use of multiple fabrics (often breathable) in one garment: and heavy woolen cloaks.
        Crinian military wear historically included multicolored lacework as a means of signifying veterancy, campaign history, family, and professionalism. The modern Governorate heavily incorporates lace into its dress.
        Iomates’s clothing is standard Crinian.
Architecture
        Plaster and stone construction, with the latter especially favored by the clergy. Slave residences and poorhouses are generally built from brick in the Despotate due to a relative shortage of wood and woodland: this tradition carries on in the Governorate due to close proximity to rivers and clay sources, and due to density reducing access to wood.
Southern Crinia | Crinia Proper
Alternative names: Crinia, Carniast (Tawa.), Crinien (Laun.)
  

Crinia Proper | Divisions and Polities
Crinia Proper is divided into three regions and a number of sub-regions. Crinia Proper was originally part of a contiguous “old” Crinian empire in hegemonic dominance over the peninsula and with basin-wide influence, in a way akin to China: [ac]it then experienced a second “hegemonic breakout” by which it gained control over the Basin and worldwide influence, before permanently collapsing centuries later.
The westernmost region is Maliabes, the historical center of the Empire and the location of the Twin Cities. The various feudal lords and patricians in the region- despite its relative wealth and connectivity- adhere to a highly feudalized form of government, in contrast to the Crinian-era plantations and governorates of Iomates, Thursia, or Aletia. Maliabes is primarily governed by the Vacancy, or the Maliabine Compact[ad], a set of eight treaties carried out in the post-Crinian era among the noble families of the region, and subsequently adopted as standard. The Vacancy established a framework for state legitimacy and relations in the absence of the old Crinian system, but Maliabes still exhibits unusual political norms with regards to sovereignty and diplomacy not seen elsewhere in the region.
Southern Maliabes is Niatheme[ae]: a cold, rocky, but surprisingly wealthy and modern region, with an isolationist but prosperous standard of living. Niatheme is ruled by Crinian “bureaucratic feudalism” under the Maliabine Compact, and finds its closest political and economic peer in Outer Kormest and the Kormestin corporatist parliamentary model in particular. The region is also notable for having cordial relations with the Double Union, despite its liberal-progressive streak. It is also one of the hearths of pan-Crinian nationalism as an alternative to religious (Merouldist) union or Tyrannical authority, albeit in a humanistic, theoretical form. Niathemite Pan-Crinianism is arguably the Saint-Simonianism to the Dawnguard’s socialism. 
The Gold Horn is the trade nexus between Dionaea and western Crinia and the Launinrach. Most trade from Maliabes passes by ship from the Gold Horn into Koilàthàlast. Its economy is dominated by the estates of the Crinian families and the Double Union’s clergy: historically, the two have competed for power over the Horn’s wealth for centuries, leading to persistent political instability (but not war!) termed the Principled Anarchy. With the emergence of the Erimaean Front north of the Horn, however, the Gold Coast is no longer necessarily the most stable (if still the most prosperous) stop on the trade routes, and has rapidly lost trade share to the Erimaean coast.
The Gilt Horn, like the Gold Horn, is a wealthy trading state, albeit in all ways lesser than the Gold Horn. It, along with Hebrion, is notable for marking the historical furthest extent of Dytic expansion: it is currently ruled directly by the Dionaean Order to the Marches, and is a conservative, slaveholding region.
Hebrion is a poor backwater, similar to its neightbors in Lydion and the Heratid Gate. Notable for being the only arid desert in the Basin, it marked the border of Crinian civilization for over a thousand years[af][ag][ah] before its abrupt explosion into a worldwide hegemon. Native rulers clawed back control against all odds, though Hebrion’s identity is still somewhat Crinianized and founded almost entirely on its relationship to Crinia, rather than an indigenous identity.
The Koilàthàlast is the name for the sea south of the Gold and Gilt Horns, and also the name for the archipelago and eastern side of the larger Gold Horn peninsula. It was historically the hearth of Crinian economic activity in its pre-hegemonic breakout stage, but has since faded into a secondary economic region against the axis of prosperity that is Dionaea-Maliabes-Horns-Thursia-Aletia. (This region, the heartland of the “global” Crinian empire, is known as the Blue Ankythus, after a local fruit that resembles the shape of the tradelanes.) The Koilàthàlast is split into five states, with the mainland three aligning with Dionaea and the island two aligning with the Double Union (and historically ruling mainland Koilàthalast).
Acoteia is the province in the south of the Koilàthàlast, and historically wealthy, benefitting from trade with Sanghieu. Currently, the region is significant as a mechanical hub, importing and exporting technological marvels (and coal) at great cost. It is ruled by a conservative slaving monarchy, aligned with the Double Union, but is under significant strain from a constitutional movement of Dionaean-aligned abolitionists.
Gameplay Divisions Recommendations
By order of granularity.
            1. Divide into seven provinces (Niatheme, Maliabes, Gold Horn, Gilt Horn, Koilithàlàst, Acoteia, Hebrion)
            2. Divide into six provinces (Niatheme, Maliabes, Gold Horn, Koilithàlàst, Acoteia, Hebrion (incl. Gilt Horn), 
            3. Divide into six provinces (Niatheme, Maliabes, the Horns, Koilithàlàst, Acoteia, Hebrion)
            4. Divide into five provinces (Niatheme, Maliabes, the Horns, Koilithàlast, Hebrion)
            5. Divide into four provinces (Maliabes, the Horns, Koilithàlast, Hebrion)
            6. Divide into three provinces (Maliabes (incl. Gold Horn), Koilithàlast, Hebrion (incl. Gilt Horn))
            7. Divide into two provinces (Maliabes (incl. Gold Horn), Koilithàlast)
            8. As one province (Crinia Proper)
            9. As one province with Dionaea Magna (Central Crinia / Crinia Magna)
Buildings, Resources, and Landmarks
The Gold Horn produces ankythus oil, both for consumption and for lamp-oil, in immense quantities: it is a critical cultural as well as economic export.
Maliabes is home to the Twin Cities, the single largest metropolis in Crinia and a center for design 
Northwestern Crinia Proper | Gold Horn[ai]
Gold Horn | Situations
Major | Gold Horn | The Despotate of Iriade-Havennou-Chrysicoria
The Triple Union of Iriade-Havennou-Chrysicoria is ruled by a triumvirate of two of the old Crinian Seven Houses, and one domestic House (mercantile). A wealthy trading state, it is compromised by intense political instability and gridlock, and is primed to lose its status to Erimaeus as a regional trade center.
Minor | Gold Horn | The Despotate of Neatikiates
Neatikiates is a self-proclaimed, Dawnguard-influenced despotate in the southeast of the Gold Horn, being an autonomous breakaway from Iriade-Havennou-Chrysicoria. While officially expressing interest in the fg as a fourth partner, the Despotate’s alignment with the Double Union prevents its inclusion on fears of breaking the power balance.
Major | Gold Horn | Mia Anarchía Me Archés, the Principled Anarchy
House Iriade and Maliabes, House Havennou and the Double Union, House Chrysicoria and the Gold Horn merchants, and the new, Dawnguard-influenced House Neatikiates are locked in a ruthless struggle of assassins, spies, gangs, and politics for the Gold Horn that dates back centuries and has only slipped further into fragmentation over time. 
Major | Gold Horn | The Golden Presses
The Gold Horn is called the Gold Horn for a reason: its ankythus (fantasy long-olive) plantations and presses are legendary. The entire Blue Ankythus imports most of its oils from the Gold Horn, and scholars even make distinctions between “core” Crinia and the Marches and frontiers by consumption of Gold Horn oil: the “scent of ankythei smoke” is often used as a euphemism for Crinianization. However, the plantations are also run by enormous (and transient) populations of slaves.
Major | Dionaea Magna | The Dawnguard
        The Dawnguard is a pan-Crinian, moralist, reactionary movement that rivals the Monastic Union in influence among the lower classes. Nominally integrated into the Merouldist hierarchy, the Dawnguard continues to grow explosively and seemingly no closer to true integration. Particularly, the Double Union and Dionaean Front compete to capture the Dawnguard to their respective causes, while embracing or containing its ideological spread.
Minor | Gold Horn | The Central Slave Trade
The Gold Horn is the center of slave trading between the Koilàthàlast/Dytikratia and western Crinia. Wanderer slaves flow from Ervas into the Gilt Horn and Koilàthàlast, Crinian slaves from Thursia are expelled and sold to the Double Union and Iomates (safely away from hostile states in the eastern Koilàthàlast), and Acoteian slaves round the Horn to Maliabes. At the same time, the Gold Horn is notorious for slave mutinies and escapes, aided by the region’s competing factions and instability.
Minor | Gold Horn | Mechs, Bombs, and Principles
Dionaean light mechs, once a rarity and virtually a war crime in the Principled Anarchy, are becoming increasingly common and normalized in the Gold Horn’s conflicts. Though limited for now, the use of light mechs- and perhaps eventually heavy Launine mechs (or worse, artillery)- promises to intensify the conflict in the Horn into a new and destructive phase.
Minor | Gold Horn | Batapolis
Batapolis is the commercial and population center of the Gold Horn, and also the “assassination capital” of the region. Notoriously, despite its historical and current political prestige, none of the three Despots reside in the city. It is arguable whether the noble quarter represents an active warzone. Though the three largest factions in Batapolis are the three Despots, foreign embassies and estates collectively represent a neutral “fourth party” kingmaker that often finds itself wrapped in the intrigues.
Minor | Gold Horn | Greens, Yellows, Whites, Blues, and Blacks
The Gold Horn plays host to embassies and political outposts from across and even outside Crinia. In the absence of a strong internal authority, Greencloaks, Yellow Scarves, Wanderer mercenaries, Kormestin Federal Expeditionaries, and Launine bureaucrats[aj] alike have established political and intelligence bases in Batapolis with near-total legal impunity, competing for influence among the massive slave populations of the region. This immunity contributes enormously to the political violence in the region.
Gold Horn | Divisions and Polities
Gold Horn is ruled by the Despotate of Iriade-Havennou-Chrysicoria, or simply the Triple Union. It is a triumvirate composed of three Despots from three Houses, and extremely dysfunctional.
House Iriade is ruled by Despotissa Yava[3] IX Iriadid, representing Maliabine interests. It is subject to the Maliabine Compact, and advocates for economic integration to Maliabes. It is also vigorously Seeker. Its estates are concentrated in the east. Recently, House Iriade was the (slightly) dominant force in the Gold Horn: presently, it has lost ground and has been forced to ally with Chrysicoria against Havennou and Neatikiates to maintain the balance of power.
House Havennou represents Double Union interests and is functionally a diarchy between the Despot and the local Master Missionary. It is vigorously Merouldist, and originally was the sole despot of the Horn. Its Despot has the fewest landholdings of any House, and is propped up by Church support: the Church in turn has the greater landholdings. Its estates are concentrated in the west.
House Chrysicoria represents mercantile interests, and has no official faith (but is not secularist). Its landholdings are primarily urban, scattered in the northern coast: though wealthy and equal on paper to the other Despots, it lacks the (relative) territorial integrity of the other two Despots’ fiefdoms, and only survives as a kingmaker between the other two. (The other despots distrust, but pragmatically use, Chrysicoria: contrastingly, the foreign abolitionists are considered trustworthy, non-threatening, but indiscriminate, neutrals: they represent two different types of “third party” in the conflict.)
House Neatikiates is an autonomous region in the Gold Horn, south of the “LD H” on the map. Emerging from a personal union of two formerly opposed regions, Neatikiates has emerged as a new regional power favorable to the Double Union and therefore aligned to Havennou. 
House Havennou is ruled by Despotissa Palybia II Havennou, in a de-facto diarchy with Grandmaster Proctor Papadeas (Order to the Houses)[ak]. Palybia II Havennou[al] is an aging, weak-willed, and servile- but nonetheless intelligent, pious, generous, and cultured- despot who is generally seen as unfit for the task of rule. By contrast, Proctor Papadeas[am] is a blunt but devastatingly effective manipulator and power-broker who has only physically lived in the Horn for two years, following the assassination or expulsion of three prior Master Missionaries, all allies or subordinates of Papadeas entrusted with managing the conflict. His presence has vastly improved the coordination and influence of the Church, at the cost of putting Papadeas himself- arguably the keystone of the entire Gold Horn project- at risk.
House Chrysicoria is in a Succession Council in a regency under Despotimitor (Despot-Mother) Loukia Chrysicoria-Takallis[an], and has been for the past twenty years. Loukia Chrysicoria-Takallis is not a Chrysicoria by blood, but this hardly matters: House Chrysicoria represents a disparate assembly of mercantile interests, most of whom are glad to have more influence on the Succession Council under an illegitimate ruler than no influence under an absolutist (but legitimate) Chrysicorian despot. Loukia is a shrewd, luxury-loving politician who has positioned a number of daughters, nieces, and successors to act as public shields: though she has outlasted over ten successive “heirs”, she has grown increasingly overconfident and open with her power and wealth. 
House Neatikiates is ruled by Despotissa Athamea-Avorafila Neatikiates[ao], a Dawnguard supporter and one of the few Dawnguard-aligned rulers in power. Though a comparatively minor figure on the world stage, she is one of the few individuals who can truly exercise control over the (local) Dawnguard. She is a relative outsider (having been low on the line of succession to the constituent territories of the Neatikiatid Despotate) and consequently a genuine believer in the Double Union and the subjugation of the Dawnguard to orthodoxy. In return, the Double Union sees Athamea-Avorafila as a loyal puppet: as Athamea-Avorafila’s beliefs come more into contact and conflict with the Double Union’s reality, however, she is likely to become increasingly dissident and a thorn in the Double Union’s side.
Maliabes | Economy and Military
Economic Base
        Gold Horn’s economy is commercial and agrarian: it adheres to a Crinian-style plantation system, albeit one where property and legal jurisdiction have merged somewhat (semi-feudal) due to extensive internal warfare. (Contrast with Iomates, a “purer” example of the old Crinian economy: property there is just property.) Gold Horn has a relatively high agricultural yield and fertility, though extensive cash-cropping means that the Horn is roughly net neutral, neither exporting nor importing food. Internal grain trade is common, however, creating a vigorous internal market.
Specializations 
        The Gold Horn’s plantations of ankythus (long-olive) trees are legendary, with a diverse and fabled range of cultivars for whom age has multiplied yields and depths of texture. The volume of oil exported is truly massive, serving particularly as lamp oil across the Basin. Ankythus’s scent is famous and renowned (and plausibly slightly addictive), with the Gold Horn’s ankythei renowned in numerous poems, frescoes, and sayings across central Crinia. 
Even the economic heartland of Crinia draws its name from the ankythus, while ankythus lamp oil’s omnipresence in Crinia has led the scent of ankythus to be associated with Crinianization and Crinian culture. Ankythus oil gave the Gold Horn its name, and fuels the obscene wealth of the Horn beyond even the slave trade.
At the same time, ankythus farming is highly labor and capital-intensive, requiring large slave workforces, extensive infrastructure, and prolonged growth. Old-growth ankythus trees are so valuable (and so productive compared to younger trees) that they have acted as a brake on warfare in the Gold Horn, where the economic losses caused by moving a company of soldiers across a planted countryside would outweigh virtually any objective in that region. On the flip side, this suspension of warfare for economic reasons has also facilitated intense urban and (noble) gang warfare, while preventing decisive military victory that would quell unrest.
The Gold Horn is also a nexus for slave trading, and specifically three major routes: Dytikratia -> Dionaea Magna, Ervas -> Koilàthàlast,[ap] and Acoteia -> Maliabes. Dytic states produce a steady stream of indentured and war-prisoner Crinians who cannot be permitted into the hostile states of Hebrion and the Gilt Horn, and hence are sold to the Double Union and Iomates. Ervas’s Wanderer slaves have historically caused instability in the Double Union and Iomates, and are instead transported into Koilàthàlast and the Gold Horn: and Maliabine Crinian houses have extensive holdings in Acoteia from which slaves and indentures are sourced, but the overland journey is more expensive than passage around the Horn. Hence, all three routes pass by the Gold Horn.
Military
        The “official” military in the Triple Union has faded in relevance over the centuries. While still the sole concentration of heavy weapons in the region- boasting a mishmash of different and generally somewhat dilapidated mechs, artillery, and other ordonnance from around the basin- the military is functionally impotent and disorganized, and primarily serves as an armory to be competed over and embezzled from in the course of the Principled Anarchy. Legally, the Triple Union’s military is supposed to have a monopoly on force: this power is sporadically used to crack down on the paramilitaries. 
        The real military forces in the Triple Union are the various paramilitaries, mercenaries, and House armies of the various Despotates. Each House adheres to a similar model, mixing pistol- or musket-toting, unarmored irregulars with extremely heavy (i.e. bullet-proofed) professional infantry that serve as the shock and riot troops: the system reflects urban conflicts, with comparatively little use of cavalry, armor, or even organizational hierarchy beyond the lowest levels. 
Nonetheless, these groups are extremely veteran and large, such that the Triple Union is functionally one of the most militarized states in Tundra by proportion of population (short only of tribal retinues, true military states, or clans like Triskelion, the Ecumenical Governorate, or Achamast). 
        Wanderer mercenaries are extremely common in the Triple Union, both enslaved and as free fighters.
        The introduction of Dionaean mechs over the past fifty years [aq][ar][as](with relative normalization of relations under the Junta) has revolutionized Triple Union combat, as light walkers are both relatively destructive and relatively invulnerable in urban warfare against light infantry humans. Conflict in the Triple Union has consequently entered an increasingly destructive phase in which buildings and infrastructure are taking damage, not just individuals on the street: the region is increasingly beginning to resemble an urban warzone. 
Gold Horn | Culture and Society
Faith and Religion
        Gold Horn is fundamentalist Merouldist, with some Seeker influence in Neatikiates. Neatikiates, being the confederation of a Seeker and a Merouldist state, is publicly tolerant: private actors commonly discriminate, however. 
        The rigid Merouldist beliefs of the elite are largely political, however, with piety weaponized as a response to a powerful and fairly corrupt temporal Church. Though the basis of this fundamentalism is somewhat similar to the Dawnguard movement, it predates this movement and originates in the elite rather than the poor: nonetheless, it has successfully occupied the space that the Dawnguard does elsewhere, and prevented the Dawnguard from spreading as a result.
Holidays
        Harvests, equinoxes. Uniquely, Gold Horn celebrates the “Fifteen Immolations”, a 15-day bonfire festival commemorating the fifteen monsters (Armit)-Dutsas slew, burning their corpses to thaw the world: the festival culminates with the death of Eri-Dutsas and the ascension of Avora as a god. 
Burial Rites
        You know the drill.
Marriage Customs
        Generally monogamous: performed by Merouldist clergy in Iomates, and by communal heads or leaders in the Governorate.
Art
        Fresco and watercolor painting are well-developed, despite the general oil-painting tradition in most of Crinia. The ubiquity of the (not-suitable-for-painting) ankythus oil, semi-frequently propped up by official monopolies and taxes on production of other oils, has restricted the supply of oil paint mediums.
Language
        Greek-like, Crinian.
Fashion and Dress
        Gold Horn has a large variety of partisans with “color” uniforms, either by chance or by intention: individuals tend to dress according to a color affiliation (for safety in friendly regions) or in stripes / browns. Otherwise, largely Crinian standard.
Architecture
        Crinian standard: stone, plaster, tile, and a generally Mediterranean aesthetic. Extensive use of Chinese-style courtyards and walled compounds. Extremely developed infrastructure (bridges, roads, etc.) but to a variety of standards and by a variety of actors: the roads may be able to take a merchant from one end of the Horn to the other in two days, but they’ll need three different widths of cart.


Northwestern Crinia Proper | Maliabes
Maliabes | Situations
Major | Maliabes | The Maliabine Compact
The myriad noble families and petty lords of Maliabes voluntarily adhere to a basic code of eight treaties that “provisionally and in goodwill” create a confederation of autonomous, HRE-like properties (not true states!) dominated by the Seven Families and maintained by a state of splendid isolation from the realities of a post-Crinian world.
Major | Maliabes | The Twin Cities
Undiminished (at least at first glance) from their Crinian heights, the Twin Cities of Maliabes are the center of 


Maliabes | Divisions and Polities
The westernmost region is Maliabes, the historical center of the Empire and the location of the Twin Cities. The various feudal lords and patricians in the region- despite its relative wealth and connectivity- adhere to a highly feudalized form of government, in contrast to the Crinian-era plantations and governorates of Iomates, Thursia, or Aletia. Maliabes is primarily governed by the Vacancy, or the Maliabine Compact[at], a set of eight treaties carried out in the post-Crinian era among the noble families of the region, and subsequently adopted as standard. The Vacancy established a framework for state legitimacy and relations in the absence of the old Crinian system, but Maliabes still exhibits unusual political norms with regards to sovereignty and diplomacy not seen elsewhere in the region.
Particularly, Maliabes was so central to Crinia, and Crinia so central to Maliabes, that it alone never managed to snap out of the Crinian era into a new multipolar world. The Compact is arguably "stateless" or "megacorporate" in nature, with rule exercised in terms of ownership, tenancy, and employment rather than state power. This odd state of being has been made possible by the stability, hegemony, and wealth of Maliabes’s surrounding nations (particularly the Double Union, and with trade and foreign influence “filtered” through the Gold Horn), permitting the Maliabine princelings and baronets to live as if the fall of Crinia was just a decade-long interregnum.


Maliabes | Economy and Military
Economic Base
        Maliabes has a highly fragmented estate system that resembles feudalism in some aspects, with densely settled and (fairly) productive farmland. Having experienced a centuries-long, but marked, economic stagnation after the initial turmoil of the Crinian collapse, Maliabes’s once-booming freeholder, tradesman, and burgher classes have largely emigrated away. Replaced in part by indentured and enslaved labor from Acoteia, Maliabes is still a power- but a decidedly secondary one, compared to the booming Double Union and Dionaea, where once its economy easily outstripped both.
The Twin Cities remain the center of the Maliabine economy, acting as a Paris to draw in internal migrants and slave traders and goods for export or import- but chiefly, to fuel the pretensions of the Seven Families to continued Imperial power. At the expense of the outer regions, the Twin Cities continue to receive exorbitant architectural, infrastructure, and monumental investments that drive the city’s continued size as much as any normal economic activity. Unfortunately, this has also exacerbated the stagnation of the countryside, which continues to fragment, lose productivity, and slowly feudalize.
Northern Maliabes overlaps with the Gold Horn, and the Gold Horn is de jure part of the Compact: many of the Gold Horn’s power players are either puppets or relatives of the Seven Families in some form. This region enjoys the “spillover” of wealth and economic methods from the Gold Horn, and is markedly wealthier and more productive than the inland or south of Maliabes.
Specializations 
        Maliabes exports a wide variety of luxuries, particularly resin-preserved flowers and prestigious wines and preserves: holdovers of an Imperial era, now exported due to shifting patterns of demand. Exports of fine artwork, often illegally taken from Crinian ruins, helps fund the creation of new artwork by the Seven Families- and so the cycle continues.
        Maliabine lacquerware (wooden, with gold or ceramic) is famous, with arboriculture developed to an exceptional degree for both production of lacquer and resin and for cultivation of the woods themselves. The highly-skilled industry is notably one of the few that has grown since the fall of Crinia, under the tight control of guilds, monopolies, and skilled craftsmen.
        Maliabes is home to the most prestigious and numerous of the remaining Imperial-era Crinian Mints, producing the currency (the Crinian drachma) still used across the Basin as a universal means of exchange and lacquered-wood, artistically beautiful coins as fiat currency. [au]The currency is still used by most post-Crinian states and known for its high quality: being made of non-commodity materials, the coins tend to circulate without the problems of gold and silver (namely, being melted for jewelry or commodity use). These coins are used primarily in the Crinian Basin, and to an extent in the Dytikratia (competing with the Aletian maresc).
        Population growth in the past century, particularly in the abolitionist states, has caused a currency shortage. While the abolitionist states tend toward their own currencies or requisition slips tied to state-controlled economies, these currencies are still relatively weak outside of those states: hard drachmae are still used for global trade. Consequently, there has been a consistent shortage of drachmae.
        Notably, the Crinian Mints are extremely premodern, with a limited understanding of fiscal policy: historically, they refused to mint more or less than a given amount.[av] The system successfully defended trust in the currency during the Crinian era even in times of crisis, but with the decline in the formal status of the Mints and the loss of most mints (and most markets) outside of central Crinia, the mints have correspondingly lost their independence. 
        In the current era of currency shortage, the Maliabine nobles have consistently advocated for expansion of the currency and control of the mints. Over the past two decades, they successfully subordinated the Mints beneath the Houses: the increased currency supply has procured additional wealth for Maliabine nobility, and helped fill the currency void overall[aw], easing trade and bringing nascent abolitionist powers such as Erimaeus increasingly into the Crinian currency system.
Military
        Maliabes has no formal military, relying instead on provisional militias and private security forces that approach feudal retinues in some cases. This weakness is not deceptive: any serious attack on Maliabes would cause it to crumple like paper, and Maliabes recognizes this- it simply sees a foreign attack as unthinkable. To an extent, guarded by the conjoined hegemonies of the arch-conservatives of the Double Union and the cynical junta of the Dionaean Front, a foreign attack is unthinkable.
Maliabes | Culture and Society
Faith and Religion
        Ecumenical Merouldist: while predominantly Merouldist, Maliabes has official recognition and tolerance of other sects (save for Kerdaghite), and counts a disproportionate number of Seekers in courts (though not as rulers). 
        The Dawnguard in Maliabes is small, but present: it is recognized as a fundamentalist form of Merouldism, with significant ascetic (in reaction to the Seven Families’ opulence) characteristics. With the primary mood in Maliabes being “complacent pan-Crinianism” anyways, the Dawnguard’s pan-Crinian character is unexceptional.
        The Order to the Houses has its largest presence in Maliabes: unlike its fellow branches and orders in other regions, the Maliabine branch is largely independent from the Double Union and notoriously worldly, even more than the Union. 
Holidays
        Harvests, equinoxes. Like the Gold Horn, celebrates the “Fifteen Immolations”, a 15-day bonfire festival commemorating the fifteen monsters (Armit)-Dutsas slew, burning their corpses to thaw the world: the festival culminates with the death of Eri-Dutsas and the ascension of Avora as a god. 
Burial Rites
        You know the drill.
Marriage Customs
        Generally monogamous: performed by Merouldist clergy.
Art
Language
        Greek-like, Crinian.
Fashion and Dress
        
Architecture
        Crinian standard: stone, plaster, tile, and a generally Mediterranean aesthetic. Significant use of tiling, fresco, and marble: commoner and even slave buildings are generally stone rather than wood, due to a relative abundance of suitable Crinian-era buildings and long-lasting, stable patterns of cultivation.




Northwestern Crinia | Ekilos
  



Alternative names: Equilos (Cri. & Imp.)
Ekilos | Divisions and Polities
        The region commonly referred to Ekilos is often considered ‘the frontier’ of Crinian rule, and as such, many states emerged during the collapse of the Empire, making the diplomatic landscape in the region very fractious. Although there are currently three regions of Ekilos (Ervas in the west, Draszen in the centre, and Lestia in the east), in the days of Imperial rule, Draszen was a part of a larger Ervas, and it was only during the crisis of the Empire did Draszen separate itself from the colonial government.
        The Tyranny of Ervas is the center of Crinian culture in Ekilos, being generally the ‘remnant’ of the Imperial government in the area during the collapse. Ervas, being under the control of what locals termed ‘Semtiran’ (a ‘lesser’ Tyrant) appointed by the Tyrant of Crinia, was effectively placed under the personal rule of the noble Semitran’s family with the breakdown of imperial order, and when it was clear that Crinia in the south was lost, the Semtiran elevated himself to Tiran, and claiming, through his nobility and through his eternal loyalty to the Tyrant who chose him, true descent from the Empire. While it is still currently a formidable state, the rapid expansion of the Stavinian Republic to its north, and the persisting influence of the Archduchy to its west illustrate the vulnerable situation the Tyranny finds itself in.
        Southwest of the Tyranny in the region of Istra lies the United Kingdoms of Astonia and Lettsland, a dual monarchy composed of a native Dutsasian-converted population. Although they, on paper, pledge loyalty together to Ervas as vassals and recognize the claim of the Tyranny as the true successors to the Empire, in reality, the United Kingdoms are independent, often explaining even the most mundane of differences in foreign policy with their masters as being due to ‘internal difficulties’ that would make effective implementation and full compliance unachievable. In terms of governance, the state is devolved even with regards to political structure: the Kingdom of Lettsland is an absolute monarchy, while Astonia is a fully constitutional one. The fact, then, that the United Kingdoms are a land of contrasts without unity, does not bode well for their future.
        The Archduchy of Draszen in the center of Ekilos was once a part of the colonial government of Ervas, but with the collapse of Imperial rule, Draszen quickly declared its independence, and today is, on paper, the strongest state in Ekilos, consistently fending off many attempts of the Orthodox states to conquer it. It is an absolute monarchy ruled by a Kerdaghite royal family that must fend off the still-angry Orthodox states attempting to overthrow it, and internal tensions with the country’s majority Seeker-Merouldist population. A mecca for Crinia’s oppressed Kerdaghites and Wanderers from the north, the Archduchy is one beset by all sides by those who would seek its end, particularly from newly-independent republics in the Pearl Coast.
        To the east, the descendants of the Kingdom of Lestia, the Principalities of Evedin, Arvas, and Kolasti, fight without end. Lestia was once a vassal of the Empire, but with the Empire’s fall, the last reigning King of Lestia has divided amongst his children Lestia’s lands, in the desperate attempt to avoid the chaos that had gripped the south. And yet, Lestia has not known peace, as the Principalities stubbornly fight to reclaim the honor of a united Lestia. While in a region that is generally rich in resources as a whole, the Principalities often squander their wealth in fruitless military ventures against each other, while the surrounding powers constantly back different sides in a sort of proxy war to gain influence and resources.
During the Imperial invasion, however, the impossible happened. Witnessing the devastation of Dionaea and the encroaching threat, nearly all of the nations of Ekilos — Ervas, Draszen, Itnikos, Paretia, Kaini Efigas, Evedin, Arvas, Kolasti — set aside their quarrels, and united into the Northern Compact. They fought valiantly, but as the ruined city-streets can attest to, they fought in futility. Beginning as a civil war in the Principality of Arvas (as a result of the puppeting of their Double Union benefactors), The Compact’s forces amassed in the western border, being painfully whittled down in a series of battles as the Imperial legionnaires made their way to the Compact’s heartlands.
Taking this opportunity, the United Kingdoms thrust into the undefended flank of the Compact, as the Letts charged forward to gain their independence from Ervas, dragging along the hesitant Astonians with them. In the end, it made little difference for the doomed Compact’s defeat. Yet, the Letts had demonstrated themselves as loyal to the Empire, and for that they gained the spoils of war. To the horror of Astonian nationalists and parliamentarians, the Lett king was unilaterally proclaimed king over three conquered lands by the Empire. What was once a dual monarchy is now a quintuple one. Although the Letts certainly love flaunting the name of the “United Kingdoms of Lettsland, Ervas, Astonia[ax], Radis, and Aramcia”, many now in the country’s territories know it now as the Tyranny of East Crinia.
Gameplay Divisions Recommendations
            5. 7 - Draszen, Pearl Coast, Silurii, Ervas, Evedin, Arvas, Kolasti
            6. 6 - Draszen, Silurii, Ervas, Evedin, Arvas, Kolasti
            7. 4 - Draszen, Silurii, Ervas, Lestia
            8. 3 - Draszen, Ervas, Lestia
Buildings, Resources, and Landmarks
Evedin, Arvas, and Kolasti all have, through mining the waters of their lake, access to gemstones.
Draszen has steel, but also gets large rideable wolves it trades from Northern Wanderer tribes.
The Republics of the Pearl Coast have, as indicative of their name, pearls.
Istra has some good farmland, but there’s a lot of gold on its border with Ervas that is disputed
Western Ekilos | Ervas[ay]
Alternative names: 
Ervas | Situations
Major | Ervas | Tyranny of Ervas
The bastion of Crinian influence in Ekilos, the Tyranny of Ervas used to encompass all of Ekilos, before the collapse. Now claiming to be the rightful successor of the Empire, the Tyranny and its Crinian elite must deal with unfriendly breakaway states, and rowdy tribes who are increasingly tired of foreign overlordship. They are now a distant memory, their golden wreaths shattered beneath their feet. They have lost the right to call themselves sole master of this land. Now, they can only boast one crown out of five. And it isn’t even their own who wears that crown.


Minor | Ervas | The Silurii Confederation
Though the Silurii once boasted an impressive kingdom prior to imperial conquest, today, it is a rump-state, not even holding power over half of their own people (most Silurii live under the banner of the Tyranny). Only existing due to the protection of the Archduke of Draszen, the Confederation ostensibly is under a equal personal union with Draszen, but for all intents and purposes, it is effectively a buffer state to ward off expansion from Ervas. With the Northern Compact’s formation, the actual need to keep up the facade vaporized, and the Confederation was annexed into the Archduchy to little protest. Today, the puppeted Draszeni state still has the Silurii territory under them, and once again, is used to push claims against their rivals. This time, however, it’s an East Crinian Tyranny, and not an Ervast one that they oppose.


Major | Ervas | The Azure Fleet
The pride of the Ervast Tyrants, the Azure Fleet is a large navy, composed of old Imperial military ships that sought safe harbor in Ervas’s ports as the Empire collapsed. Although it is technically the world’s largest navy, as the years drag on, it is growing increasingly apparent that the Fleet is becoming outdated, and it is becoming anachronistic due to the simple fact that most of Ervas’s threats are overland. While still an important part of Ervas’s claim to one day restore the Empire and to its broader maritime trade, the Fleet is becoming increasingly expensive to maintain and retrofit, with many are wondering if keeping it around is actually worth it as opposed to starting from scratch. With help of Draszeni technology, the Azure fleet made a rapid push to modernize, but there was simply not much more time other than to reinforce the armor and weapons of existing vessels. During the fighting, they remained tied up fighting the Royal Lett Navy, but this was a blessing in disguise, as fighting the Empire directly would have surely witnessed its obliteration. With the defeat, rather than fall under the service of East Crinia traitors, the admirals instead pledged their allegiance to the new pro-Imperial Draszeni government. Ownership of this remnant fleet is hotly-disputed between East Crinia and Draszen.


Major | Ervas | The Northern Slave Trade
Though nominally hostile with the Republic of Stavinia, there exists a degree of economic cooperation. Chief amongst this is the Northern slave trade, in which Stavinia kidnaps and enslaves Wanderer tribals in the north, selling them to the Ervasts, where they are either placed to work in plantations or further distributed all throughout Crinia. Due to the fact that the Tyranny’s economy is not very industrialized and implementing corvee labour amongst its own native populations would certainly lead to revolt, the Tyranny is fundamentally a slave-based economy. Even as Eastern Crinia asserts its authority, the trade is still not criminalized (as by technicality former Ervast law was ‘inherited’ in the former territory as a ‘constituent crown’, albeit with changes ending discrimination towards non-Crinian Merouldists). This makes it a particularly complex subject for the Empire, as technically their subjects should not be trading with a still-independent Stavinia that rejects imperial authority. Despite this, to go so far as to abolish slavery would be to upend the economic life in the former Ervas, and already Ervast politicians are co-opting democratic language of ‘rights’ and ‘national sovereignty’ to oppose moves to limit it.
Ervas | Divisions and Polities
The Tyranny of Ervas is administratively divided into several provinces, each governed by a Semtiran, a title retained from the days of the Empire. While the Semtirans are nominally loyal to the ruling Tiran of Ervas, in practice, their loyalty varies depending on their own ambitions and the stability of the central government. This decentralization has left the Tyranny vulnerable to both internal dissent and external meddling. Originally a colonial government that oversaw the expansion of the Crinian Empire, when the Empire fell, an assortment of military officers, nobles, and other Crinians simply wishing to escape the violence fled to the shores of Ervas. Despite the influx of Crinians, this meant not that Ervas experienced success, as fragmentation occurred, in which natives had re-established their own polities, such as Draszen. Despite this, Ervas is a significant military power, fully capable of projecting its naval reach as far as Dionaea.
The provinces are further divided into rural districts and urban centers. The cities of Lystera and Maelvaris, renowned for their production of indigo dyes and textiles, are considered the cultural heartlands of Crinian heritage in Ekilos. In contrast, border provinces near the Silurii Confederation and the Republic of Stavinia are militarized zones, where local leaders act with near-autonomy to fend off incursions. The uneasy relationship between these frontier governors and the central authority indicates a fragmentation within Ervas's governance.
Ervas | Culture and Society
Faith and Religion
The region is predominantly Merouldist, although Seekers and Kerdaghites have a notable presence in rural areas. Nobles and elites tend to be Merouldist, though there is a significant population of Eternals amongst their number.
South Western Ekilos | Istra[az]
Alternative names: Istros (Cr.), Istronorum (Imp.)
Istra | Situations
Major | Lettsland | Kingdom of Lettsland
The ‘senior’ partner of the United Kingdoms, the Kingdom of Lettsland is an absolute monarchy encompassing the entirety of the island of Pritha Aelva, as well as a couple majority-Lett towns on the Astonian coast. A substantial naval power, the Lett king was invited to reign over Astonian lands by their people in order to grant them protection against a hypothetical Ervast invasion. Although Ervast has been considerably reluctant to exercise its authority against its supposed Lett and Astonian allies, there is growing resentment in the larger United Kingdoms over their traditional privileges due to the rise of a populist Lett-Astonian composite nationalism ‘the Western Nations Idea’.
Major | Astonia | Kingdom of the Astonians
The ‘junior’ partner of the United Kingdoms, the Kingdom of the Astonians is a constitutional monarchy that rules over the United Kingdoms’ mainland territory. While significantly more populous than the neighboring Kingdom of Lettsland, the Astonians are less industrial and wealthy, and so, the Astonians permitted the Lett king to rule over them in order to access their industry and their significant navy to protect their independence against the Ervas’s Azure Fleet. However, having gotten the short end of the arrangement, different brands of nationalism are organizing in Astonia, whether for the traditional nationalist concept of separating Astonia from their union with Lettsland, to the ‘Western Nations Idea’ advocating for an entirely new state on the basis of Astonian-Lett equality. The transformation of a dual monarchy into a quintuple one, however, has completely upended the Astonians’ political lives, as the sole reason they stomached the domineering attitude of the Letts in the Union was the mutual threat of Ervas. With the elimination of the Northern Compact, and the Letts’ slavish loyalty to the Empire, nationalist radicalism is increasing, and 
Major | Istra | Iartanni
Named after an exterminated people who famously resisted Ervast expansion during the first days of Crinian colonialism, the Iartenni (or simply the ‘Yartens’) are a socialist movement that formed initially in Lettsland, before escaping to Astonia to avoid a crackdown. While initially formed to introduce parliamentary democracy in Lettsland, it has since evolved more-radical proposals, such as the elimination of the Lett clan system, the abolition of slavery, the total expulsion of ‘negative foreign influences’ (and thus the de jure vassal relationship with Ervas), and a full embrace of the Western Nations Idea. Additionally, some of their number advocate for the establishment of a republic in place of the Dual Monarchy, though they tend to walk this proposal back in order to avoid upsetting Astonian authorities. While confined to the United Kingdoms for now, the Yartens are eager to support the cause of the people’s national-democratic revolution everywhere, even if it is still an opposition group, and may coordinate efforts with like-minded entities.
Minor | Lettsland | The Clan System
The Lett nobility is largely a patchwork of large warrior-clan lodges that are by-and-large extremely resistant to any form of change (technological, social, political, etc.) and are extremely loyal to the monarchy. Ultra-conservative and Merouldist in outlook, the Lett clans dominate the political system, and fervently oppose any attempt at reform. Even in ‘modernising’ environments such as the industrializing cities, you cannot escape clan influence, as city districts are often divided amongst new ‘clans’ in the same way you would see in the countryside. The ‘feudal capitalism’ that emerges then causes the otherwise-impressive Lett industrial base to be incredibly fragmented, and it is difficult to coordinate the economy without direct orders from the monarch. Although there is growing sentiment to abolish or reform the institution from the ordinary populace in order to achieve necessary changes, the clans’ grip on politics makes such a thing near-impossible.
Minor | Astonia | Aclect Families
Originally a term to refer to rural peasant groups in Astonia that banded together to resist feudal tax officials, the Aclect now refers to different bands of criminal groups organized as ‘families’ that engage in a variety of activities. The Aclect are deeply resentful of nobility, and in their opposition to authorities that they view as ‘robbers’, they organize themselves along imagined ‘blood-ties’ to strengthen their bond against their shared enemies. While they once operated akin to bandits or raiders, the newer groups of Aclect follow more ‘respectable’ activities such as smuggling, paying off politicians, or running legitimate businesses.
Minor | Astonia | Astonian Gold
On the northern border with Ervas, the Kingdom of the Astonians lays claim to large and expansive gold fields. However, this is disputed by their de jure suzerain in Ervas, who instead claim that the current ‘boundary of control’ also delineates economic exploitation rights, leaving Astonia with only minority control over the resource. Complicating the issue is the fact that, in the Ervast territory beyond the supposed boundary, the population is ethnically Astonian and deeply wishes to join their southern brethren due to Ervast state policy of favoring Crinians.
Minor | Astonia | The Baraíthe
Translating mostly as ‘the Party’ the Baraíthe more-accurately means ‘the Brotherhood’. In decades past, a politically-diverse group of military officers (anarchist, radical-liberal, left-vanguardist, proto-fascist) had attempted a coup d’etat against the Astonian government to dissolve the ‘unequal union’ with Lettsland, to advocate for union with Astonians living in Ervas, and to reduce the encroaching influence of the Lett aristocracy on government. Such a venture was unsuccessful, with the execution of dozens of its members, and the exile of many others (who may be found serving in foreign armies for mercenary or ideological motivations). Despite this, the Astonian nationalist agenda of the Baraíthe still remains a challenge for the Kingdom, and to this day, it cannot be sure whether or not the Baraíthe still have supporters in the military.
Istra | Divisions and Polities
The territory known as Istra comprises the island of Pritha Aelva (also known as Lettsland) and Astonia, and is ruled as a whole by the United Kingdoms. The two kingdoms — the Kingdom of Lettsland and the Kingdom of the Astonians — are in personal union, being ruled by the same Lett monarch. Officially the United Kingdoms (or more accurately, both of the constituent kingdoms) are vassals under the Tyranny of Ervas, but due to their relative strength compared to the Ervasts, they have been able to be effectively-independent from the Tyranny, despite paying lip service to ancient ties. The union between Letts and Astonians arose due to the shared need to stand together in order to assert this independence, and it was the Kingdom of the Astonians that invited the Letts for protection against the Tyranny.
While sharing a common foreign policy and monarch, in all other dimensions, the United Kingdoms could not be anymore divided, as most other competencies are the authority of the constituent kingdoms, leading to greatly different modes of government and culture. This had led to many a joke referencing ‘United Kingdoms, Divided Kingdom’, as although the constituent-kingdoms themselves have coherent identities, the union between the two itself does not. While some may attempt to justify the existence of the United Kingdoms as representative of something grander, many politicians in both nations view the union as only a pragmatic political choice to ward off Ervast influence.
The Kingdom of Lettsland is the ‘senior’ partner of the union. The Letts, inhabiting their home-island of Pritha Aelva and a few majority-Lett towns on the Astonian coast, are governed mostly by a clan nobility that pays loyalty to its absolute monarch. While not doing terribly well in terms of its population, the Lett fleet and industry are greatly more-developed compared to their Astonian peers, and it was precisely these advantages that the Astonians permitted the Lett king to reign over Astonia, under the understanding that the combined economic and military might of the United Kingdoms would be able to resist foreign influence.
However, in many ways, Lettsland is a very backward country, as the antiquated warrior-clans resist any changes to its society. For instance, although they are obliged to come to the defence of the Astonians if ever the Ervast Tyranny attacks, Lettsland’s internal laws dictate that any non-Merouldist cannot be considered a subject under the protection of the Lett crown, which is especially problematic considering that the vast majority of Astonians are Seekers. If an Astonian official of the crown ever enters Lett jurisdiction, they may find themselves treated as a servant. While the discriminatory policies of the Ervasts are partially to blame, due to Lettsland’s official status as a vassal under the Tyranny (the current Lett laws are ‘modernized’ versions of ancient imperial laws designed to elevate Crinian colonial elites), so too is the relatively-more-tolerant Astonia, which instead is open to all Dutsas-Worshippers (Kerdaghites, however, are not considered Dutsas-Worshippers by Astonian authorities, who instead regard them as ‘nothing-worshippers’). Rather, the Lett political system is one of exclusivity, by which there are increasing layers of identity-based power — clan, ethnicity, faith, etc. — that engenders a hyper-competitive society that makes the construction of any broadly-united movement a very difficult task, as mutual suspicion of the motives of ‘the other’ makes it so that any political project outside the status quo is viewed akin to that of the prisoner’s dilemma, and most would rather take what they can get, rather than risk getting betrayed in the process of searching for something greater.
By contrast, the Kingdom of the Astonians is, by the standards of most states in the Crinian basin, a relatively free country. Also having its origins as a Ervast vassal-state, Astonia was once an absolute monarchy like Lettsland. However, following a peasant revolt that was soon joined by a long-dissatisfied cadet branch of the royal family, the Kingdom of Astonia was dissolved, and in its stead was the Kingdom of the Astonians — whereas the former suggested authority over the land, the latter confirmed that the King was to be of his subjects — and ever since then, Astonia has witnessed constitutional rule with an elective monarchy. With the union with Lettsland, formed as a result of the military threat posed by Ervas, Astonia has continued to elect whoever the Lett king was, and this has been done so for a while now. Although it is theoretically possible for Astonia to elect a non-Lett monarch, doing so would certainly be a dangerous political projet. While nowhere near as radical and idealistic as, say, the Archduchy of Draszen (as an example, the reason why toleration was extended to the Eternals has less to do with a belief in religious tolerance and more to do with avoiding establishing any precedent by which the government may discriminate against Merouldism), the lands of the Astonian crown are nevertheless much more free compared to that of Lettsland. It is for this reason, then, that many radical political movements — including a few exiled from Lettsland — have found their home in Astonia, where they may print their materials relatively-unimpeded so long as they do not cross the line by criticizing the institution of the monarchy. One such organisation is the Iartenni (or Yartens, for short), which is a broadly-socialist organisation dedicated at achieving revolutionary changes in Lettsland (and to a lesser extent, Astonia as well). Originally an urban literary group where intellectuals discussed utopian socialist works, the Yartens have, since their banning by Lett authorities, been integrating the support of dissatisfied peasantry, and have thus been increasingly radical, advocating for the abolition of slavery and the clan system in Lettsland. 
However, the longstanding constitutional rule of the monarchy is at question due to the increasing influence of Lett nobles introducing themselves into Astonian politics, as well as the efforts of the Lett king himself, who wishes to transform his Astonian holdings into lands of absolutism, as they are in Lettsland. It is because of these tensions that emerge from the union with Lettsland that a variety of nationalist ideologies have emerged in order to ‘preserve Astonia’ and to prevent it from losing its identity as a liberty-loving state. In certain cases, this has proven a destabilising influence in Astonian politics, with the most potent of them being the Baraíthe (literally ‘the Party’, but more accurately ‘the Brotherhood’), which was an extremely-politically-diverse nationalist group of Astonian military officers that aimed at forcibly severing Astonia from Lett influence, and reuniting with the Astonians still living under Ervas. While their coup d’etat failed and the military subjected to extensive purges, the Baraíthe still manages to exist through those supporters who escaped execution by fleeing to other countries. These figures often are found in the service of many foreign armies (for a variety of reasons, such as ideological affinity or purely just for money) in relatively-high positions. Outside Astonia, any number of these Eighty-Seveners (named after the year in the Astonian calendar, 987, that their revolution failed) could hypothetically try to make a comeback, and this is one of the Astonian crown’s worst fears. In addition, there are fears that the Baraíthe still have supporters within the military, even after all the purges, plotting to stage a second revolution, having learned the lessons of the first.
The Astonian parliament — the Itræg — is one of the few in the Crinian basin that actually has regular elections amongst the populace, with the only requirements for suffrage being the payment of a certain amount in taxes (generally allowing a mid-level government clerk to participate, and not a landless peasant) and being a non-Kerdaghite Dutsasian. Moreover, there are popular calls for the expansion of the suffrage, but these efforts have not seen success due to the effective refusal of the Lett king to give his assent to any State Counselor’s government that campaigns on doing so. Aside from a handful of minor parties, there are three significant parties. The Coalition Party consistently wins outright majorities whenever elections come, but is continually frustrated with trying to negotiate with the monarch’s assent in order to actually form a government. Formed by the fusion of different reform-minded parties, the Coalition Party has attempted, unsuccessfully, to institute changes to enhance the democratic nature of government, but has since walked back on such goals, seeing that reform under the current king will be impossible. Directly opposite of the Coalition Party is the Bloc of Independent Progressives which, despite its name, is a firmly conservative party that aligns more often with the Lett king than the Astonian people. As can be assumed, the Independent Progressives often charge their Coalition counterparts as agents of instability and disunion. Finally, there is the National Coalition Party, which split from the regular Coalition Party after the failure to restrict the monarch’s power. Both an agrarian and radical-democratic party, the National Coalition also is the main advocate for expanding suffrage to the peasantry, which Coalition and Independent Progressive leaders are deeply uncomfortable with. However, it is more of a pressure group to push the Coalition Party to maintain reform as a major goal, since the prospects that the king will approve of a National Coalition-led government are effectively zero.
Political Leaders
Loved by the Lett clans, tolerated by the Astonian upper class, and archenemy of the poor in both nations, King Ùistean Mhasaid is the very archetype of an autocratic ruler, often indelicately forcing his way into political affairs to dictate his own stance and fully expectant on his ministers to hang on his every word. Raised in the Lett court, with countless nobles all singing his father’s praises and preparing the king to rule in the old traditional way, King Ùistean was perhaps shaped by his upbringing to treat the institution of monarchy as he does to this day, as an extension of his Dutsas-appointed self. Yet, this has also meant that he is incredibly out of touch with the larger wishes of his subjects, particularly in Astonia, where he has difficulty in understanding the constitutional nature of his kingship there. As a constant obstacle to any would-be reformist government, his unpopular ‘foreign’ reign has brought the idea of republicanism — once a fringe ideology — into the mainstream, and although the law of Astonia still prohibits any advocacy for a dissolution of the monarchy, there is less appetite to enforce it as it is becoming more popular as part of a nationalist reaction to Lett elitism.
Flanked at the king’s side are his respective prime ministers for Lettsland and Astonia (there are no high-level ‘central’ executive offices for the United Kingdoms as a collective whole). For Lettsland, the First Minister is the elder Ogal Vek’Fiondde, the head of Clan Fiondde, and much like the king, an arch-conservative Merouldist who aims to not only preserve traditional Lett rule, but to subtly influence Astonia into undoing its constitutionalism in order to better secure the two kingdoms’ unity against Ervast incursion. Also a military man and a capable statesman, Vek’Fiondde is a diplomat at heart, and has ambitions for a pragmatic international ‘restructuring’ in which the United Kingdoms would either ‘reassess’ the traditionally-unfriendly relations with the Ervast Tyranny, or find other allies elsewhere to fend off Ervast influence in the event that a warming of relations could not be achieved. Constantly feuding with them is the youthful Astonian State Counselor Severda Hurdynte. While many nationalist Astonians were suspicious that her rise (first as a leader in the Coalition Party and later as State Counselor) would come to represent a surrender to monarchist influence (as she is a member of the often-conservative Lett minority in Astonia) they would hardly find a better champion for constitutionalism’s cause. After overcoming intense factional disputes within the Party (almost as divided as the British Whigs), Hurdynte received the king’s sponsorship during her initial appointment as State Counselor due to having brandished ‘moderate’ credentials, before immediately going radical the moment her ministry began. While SC Hurdynte has yet to burn all bridges by proposing an end to the effective lese-majeste laws surrounding anti-monarchy speech, Astonia had achieved significant reforms in meritocraticizing the civil service and military, and in land reforms breaking up large noble estates. To the nervousness of her party leaders, she has even floated the idea of ‘reuniting’ with the National Coalition and expanding the suffrage. Her advocacy for these measures, however, is not entirely out of the goodness of her heart or some crypto-republican plots, as she aims, through these changes, to make it so that the Party has no serious opposition, and that through a co-opting of the radicals, she could prevent them from more destructive activities, such as revolution or advocacy of republicanism.
Istra | Economy and Military
Economic Base
The economy of Istra can be seen as constituting a wealthy and industrialized Lettsland, coupled with a poorer, agrarian Astonia. Before the days of union, the clans of Lettsland, often engaged in warfare with each other and abroad, had endless demand for things such as firearms, ships, buttons, uniforms, and any other implement of war, and it was this that inspired the rapid growth of industry in Lettsland. Viewing increasing urbanization with distrust, the Lett authorities had circumvented the emergence of a national bourgeoisie by instead dividing city authority in the same way with feudal land plots amongst different clans, and as such, a form of clan-directed feudal capitalism — inefficient but without the threat of instability — emerged in Lettsland.
By contrast, the lands of Astonia were generally poor even in the days it was first founded, as the loss of the northern goldfields to the Ervast Tyranny had deprived them of their major resource. Agriculture in Astonia usually takes one of two forms. The first is an ‘importation’ of the Lett manner of agriculture in which private landowners — either by means of noble ownership of the land or capitalist purchasing of the rights — manage broader estates and work the land through either slave labour or by renting out the land to agricultural workers. The other form of agriculture is a decentralized network of peasants who collectively manage the land and pool together resources to maintain it. Although this form of agriculture is considered an ideal by Astonian nationalists (often invoking the idea of the free Astonian farmer), most often these enterprises are focused on subsistence agriculture, which, compared to the more-lucrative crops (especially sugar beets) grown by the estates, means that labourers on estates generally have a higher quality of life than the freeholders.
Specializations
The rocky cliffs and violent rivers of Lettsland provide a large source of free energy for energy to be exploited, and many mill-towns are found along the water. Although the industrial base is not cutting-edge by any means, when it is compared to low-developed regions such as Ervas and Astonia, Lett shipbuilding far outpaces their peers in sophistication, and the Lett merchant fleet is very large as a result. Furthermore, the martial origins of Lettsland’s industrialization mean that it has a very good capacity for producing firearms and other instruments of war, which are often sold to the Tyranny. While some may debate the actual merits of giving a possible threatening power the weapons you made, it is a very profitable enterprise, as the Tyranny’s own industrial base is laughable, and many argue that by making the Tyranny reliant on their supposed subjects, they will not dare to attack. And in the case of any conflict with the Tyranny, the Astonians will bear the brunt of the damage, and as such, it is not a great concern for the Lett clans.
While the greater portion of the northern goldfields have been seized by the Tyranny of Ervas, Astonia still maintains control over a sizable number, which boosts the largely-agrarian country with a valuable resource that they can leverage in trade to secure other resources for a nascent industrialization. Critically, however, is when the gold stays in the country, where guilds of goldsmiths operate ‘lending’ projects on the financial side, operating effectively as a national banking institution.
Military
Frustratingly for the High Commands of both countries, even the militaries of the United Kingdoms are separate. However, if you were to ask the generals of each country why they have not made any effort to unite the militaries, both will answer that it is because of the intransigence of the other side to abandon their backwards ways and adopt the superior, civilised way of conducting warfare. In this sense, the military forces of the respective Kingdoms reflect the overall political and social culture of each country, and the differences that make the union as a whole difficult.
The Royal Lett Army is a scattered collection of clan forces, commanded by their respective noble lords. While the fighting spirit of the Letts is often without equal, its organization is often chaotic and unruly. Often seeking glory akin to the knights of Old Crinia, during times of peace entire Lett clans go abroad to fight in foreign wars to secure a victory under their belt. Oftentimes, the direct word of the king is needed to keep the clans in line, and even then, young nobles still chafe under the authority of their elders, eager to prove their own superiority and valor. Although it is not an explicit requirement, oftentimes the officers in the army are the children of clan nobles, using their political connections to secure an (undeserved) command position in the military. However, although the Army is seen as the most prestigious, the Royal Lett Navy is the most effective force that Lettsland has at its disposal, being a rather-modern fleet that, although relatively smaller, can give the Azure Fleet a run for its money. Notably, although the Navy does have the same issues of elitism that are common in the Army, it’s less severe, and there is the actual possibility for a non-noble to ascend through the ranks of the admiralty.
By contrast, the Grand Army of Astonia is a tightly-organized and professional organization that is extensively meritocratic, due to the reforms of SC Hurdynte (such as the abolition of officer commissions). While this has done wonders with respect at encouraging a competent officer corps, this itself presents its own issues. For instance, in the competitive environment of the Grand Army, officers often form secretive cliques and engage politically with civilian political factions in order to one-up their rivals. Furthermore, because a significant part of its officer corps is composed of lower-class people whose main route for social advancement is the military, the Grand Army is also a hotbed of militant thought aimed at dismantling the current biased system, leading to groups such as the Baraíthe forming through the armed forces.
Even in the design of the United Kingdoms’ few mechanized units, differences abound. Lett machinery are mainly concentrated on mech frames that are usually produced domestically by a certain clan for the benefit of one of its own, by which point they have a fair chance of being recognized by the monarch themself as a ‘knight of the realms’. Because of the prestige that comes with being acknowledged in a knightly grand battle, the clans often race to make the most impressive platforms, making Lett mechs nonstandardized, large and bulky things, designed for the glory of the charge. Designed primarily to fight against other mechs (as infantry are often ‘beneath’ notice as targets), Lett mechs collectively are a horrible drain on industrial resources for their limited practical use, and are more of a vanity project than anything else. But one would find difficulty in convincing the clans to give up their knightly dreams. Astonia does not have any significant number of dedicated mechs, and advanced machinery is relatively rare in the Grand Army, but those few imported vehicles have much more utility than the Lett knights. While Astonia has its own ‘knights’, they are mainly scouts atop light-infantry walkers rather than a heavy cavalry. Instead, Astonia mechanized abilities involve vehicles over mechs, piloted by professional engineers rather than a blueblood. One famous vehicle is the ‘hynde[ba]’, a quick-moving quadrupedal armored vehicle designed to charge the frontlines, leap over trenches and quickly deposit shock-troopers.
Istra | Culture and Society
Faith and Religion
Istra is a land of contrasts, and even in religion, there are distinctions. Letts and members of the Crinian minority are predominantly Merouldist, while Astonians are usually Seekers, though members of the Astonian elite may be Eternals. Although many other states are able to live relatively peacefully with different populations, there are also religious laws to contend with. Namely, in Lettsland, one must be a Merouldist faithful to be considered a subject of the Lett crown. By contrast, the requirement as it is in Astonia is that you be a non-Kerdaghite Dutsasian. This is perhaps the most egregious of divisions that highlight the nature of the United Kingdoms, in that an Astonian servant of the same king is not welcome in Lettsland due to their religion.
Nationalism
Although both Kingdoms have had their origins in native revolt against Crinian domination (before ‘reversing’ into a ‘vassalship’ relationship with Ervas), the idea of a national state has not crystallized much beyond that, even if the tensions between Letts and Astonians is becoming a catalyst for this nationalism. Lett nationalism is steeped in the romanticist traditions of the clan system, while Astonian nationalism takes the character of a ‘folk’ character that is characterized by an independent streak. One particular idea, however, that has been emerging in the United Kingdoms is a composite nationalism known as the Western Nations Idea, which argues that although Astonia and Lettsland may certainly compose separate nations in a linguistic sense, 


Central Ekilos | Draszen[bb]
Alternative names: Trasa (Cri.) Trazedia (Imp.)
Draszen | Situations
Major | Draszen | Archduchy of Draszen
By itself the strongest state in the region, the Archduchy nevertheless finds itself in a dangerous situation due to its situation — effectively all the Orthodox states treat it as a land of evil, and fringe militants from its Merouldist and Charter majority population are a constant headache. Ruled by a Kerdaghite Archduke, the Archduchy had cast aside the chains of foreign influence in a popular monarchist revolution. Despite the lack of political freedom, the Archduchy is known as a bastion of cultural freedom, being a multicultural state that is one of the only protectors for Kerdaghites and Wanderers against religious discrimination, and native peoples resisting ethnic Crinianization.


Major | Pearl Coast | The Three Republics
Ruled once by Crinian slaveholding elites of the Old Archduchy (before the revolution evicted them from Draszen proper), the turmoil coincided with a separate nationalist and abolitionist revolution in the Pearl Coast supported by the Dionaean Front, denying any of these elites the chance to organize opposition. Yet, the Republicans are no friends of the New Archduchy. Firmly within the Crinian cultural sphere, the Republics of Itnikos, Paretia, and Kaini Efigas are experiencing a sort of nationalist ‘Crinian Cultural Renaissance’ that is firmly Merouldist in nature, and endorses separatism in Draszen, unwittingly serving their true masters in Dionaea. The cities lie ruined after the Empire’s soldiers marched with a trail of fire and destruction following them. The merchants sit on the streets as paupers, the silks on their backs in tatters. Itnikos to Draszen, Paretia and Kaini Efigas to Northern Lestia.
Major | Draszen | The Greencloaks
While centuries ago, the knightly Order of the Golden Hand was a Merouldist personal guard of the Draszeni rulers (prior to Crinian collapse and the conversion of the Archduchy into Kerdaghitism), it was ‘revived’ into the Order of the Silver Crown by action of the Archduke after the revolution as a secular organization. A highly ideological entity, the Order answers only to the Crown. Although its main function is to act as a secret police, it has also adopted roles in border patrol, maintaining the loyalty of the regular armed forces, and serving a ‘supplementary’ role to local law enforcement as a national gendarmerie. However, it has famously begun work into foreign intelligence (whether operations to smuggle enslaved Wanderers or Kerdaghites to the country or supporting rebel groups to destabilise their neighbours), and there are rumors that their reach extends all the way to Lydion. 
Minor | Pearl Coast | Crinian Renaissance
In the republican Pearl Coast, the emergence of new wealth amidst the spirit of newly-found nationalism has generated a cultural revolution, as artists travel here throughout Crinia to find easy sponsors amongst the commercial cities. While certainly welcomed by the republics as enhancing its international reputation as a site of culture, these artists are increasingly using experimental themes of ‘liberty’ and ‘purity’ in their romantic depictions of an imagined Crinian past, which may carry broader implications for their wealthy international audiences. Yet as the Empire has marched into these lands, the Pearl Coast’s inhabitants soon found that they could not eat gold. Once upon a time the paintings of great artists like Vitruossos and Medzer were proudly displayed along the halls of the republics’ elite. Now, they are bare, for they even ate the wallpaper in their hunger.
Minor | Draszen | Lake Peshti Dispute
While the Archduchy still, by agreement with the northern Wanderer tribes, controls most of the Saltwater Lakes, including the valuable Lake Stivak, the loss of Lake Peshti to the Stavinians is a source of national embarrassment. The military defeat has placed the ability of Draszen to defend its territory (and more specifically, the territories inhabited by Wanderer allies) into question, and it is beyond question that the Draszeni High Command is planning to retake Peshti somehow. Nobody except Stavinia cares about the Lake anymore.
Minor | Draszen | The Dawnguard
While nowhere near as powerful as they were before they were forcibly dissolved during the revolution, the Dawnguard remains a boogeyman for the Archduchy. Espousing a ‘democratic’ ideology that advocates for the forcible removal of the ‘Kerdaghite tyrant’, the Draszeni Dawnguard finds support in the fringes of the majority-Orthodox population. Hated by some for selling out the country to outside powers, and loved by others as defending the supposedly oppressed Crinian minority, the very implication that the Dawnguard could ever seize power is the Archduchy’s most effective argument against restoring parliamentary rule. With the subjugation of the Northern Compact, the Dawnguard (widely seen as saboteurs who indirectly assisted the Eternal Empire) has seen its support crater, and although it has an extremely-limited support base, it also has radicalized significantly, to the point where many members genuinely believe that since the Dutsasian apocalypse arrive, they ought to take as many other lives as they can in order to save them.


Minor | Pearl Coast | The Yellow Scarves
“Mercenary” forces and armored elements in the Republican Legion of the Pearl Coast answer directly to the Dionaean Front and wear the yellow scarf. While not comparable to the subversion seen in Erimaeus or the abolitionists in Koilàthàlast, the Yellow Scarves nonetheless exhibit a worrying degree of autonomy and political influence in the Pearl Coast.
Draszen | Divisions and Polities
The Archduchy of Draszen
Encompassing most of the region, the Archduchy of Draszen is a monarchy that is special amongst all others in that it has a Kerdaghite ruler. What is even more surprising, considering the general anti-authority nature of the Kerdaghites, is that it is an absolute one at that. Yet, if you were to ask one of the thousands of Kerdaghite emigres who had arrived unto Drazseni shores how might they justify this, you will be met with a tearful defense of the Archduke, for nowhere else but in Draszen have they known freedom. It is such, then, that the authority wielded by the Archduke is a just one, for where all other crowns are lust for power and gold, the Silver Crown is one that longs for peace and justice.
Draszeni history may be divided into two periods — Old Draszen and New Draszen. The Archduchy was founded as part of a revolt against the colonial government in Ervas, which encompassed an alliance between independently-minded native tribes and ethnically-Crinian settler Dissenters (a term used to refer to any non-Merouldist belief, before they crystallized into Kerdaghite, Eternal or Seeker branches) around the leadership of the Kerdaghite-converted princess Lysandra. After successfully fending off several invasions, the Archduchy was founded, in line with Kerdaghite doctrine along consensual authority, as a constitutional monarchy with a legislative State Council largely represented by the nobility based in the city of Veraini.
While initially, this period of constitutional rule as the Old Draszen worked fairly well in the first couple of years, as the Archduchy expanded and found itself in contact with outside powers, there was no shortage of Council members being bribed by outside powers seeking to sabotage the Draszeni government and subvert the rule of a Kerdaghite heretic. During this period, there was a general state of unease as permanent gridlock prevented any meaningful government action, while the condition of the common man deteriorated while the elite prospered. Furthermore, it was a period of great hardship for the Kerdaghites and Wanderers who arrived for the relative degree of freedom offered in the Archduchy, as they found themselves without effective protections against discrimination from their Orthodox neighbors.
Then the Silver Crown heard the cries of the people and acted.
Uncovering a conspiracy by the Draszeni Dawnguard to overthrow the Kerdaghite monarchy, establish a republic through the State Council, and to re-join the Tyranny in Ervas, the Archduke Kiral IV, along with his ever-loyal Army had stormed the halls of the once-great State Council building, and dissolved the corrupted institution, bringing forth a period of absolute rule of the Archduke. In actuality, no such thing occurred, and everyone involved in the plot knew it. And yet they continued because (a) even if they didn’t find proof there was effectively zero chance that a sizable part of Council wouldn’t have overthrown the Archduke if given the opportunity, and (b) to let the situation deteriorate any further would be risking Draszen’s ability to maintain its independence. In what would become known as the Autumn Revolution did New Draszen emerge. In the New Draszen, it was declared, none shall stand between the Archduke and his people, and in the New Draszen, none shall stand between the people and their Archduke.
With genuine popular support and the backing of the military, sweeping reforms were made. The traditional privileges of the nobility were abolished, freedom of worship was formally enshrined, and measures were taken to protect the rights of Kerdaghite and Wanderer populations. These reforms revitalized Draszen socially and economically, addressing the injustices and exploitation that had festered under Old Draszen and emerging as an industrializing power in its aftermath. No longer was the image of a starving peasant a familiar one. However, the Revolution also tarnished the idea of democracy in the eyes of the Draszeni people. To many, democracy became synonymous with the corruption and self-interest of the old State Council, a period in which the elite manipulated the system to enrich themselves at the expense of the nation. Freedom of political speech and assembly remain tightly-controlled to guard against anti-monarchy sedition. Although the Archduke’s absolute rule was initially conceived as a temporary solution meant to stabilize the nation before a reformed State Council could be reestablished, few now wish to risk a return to the frailty and corruption of Old Draszen (or perhaps worse under the rule of the ‘democratic’ Dawnguard). For decades, this “temporary” state of affairs has persisted, solidifying the Silver Crown’s role as the ultimate authority in the Archduchy.
During the days of Old Draszen, there was a very-dynamic (and fractious) political system with many parties jockeying for power. By and large, however, the State Council was dominated by traditionalist elite-based parties divided among personal cliques, while popular-democratic and monarchist forces remained sidelined, placing the actual ‘democratic’ character of the Old Draszen in question. It is for this reason that many who would normally be against the idea of absolute monarchy — such as those who may be labeled as socialists, radicals, or constitutional liberals — were amongst the ranks of the Autumn Revolution’s supporters. Under the current state of affairs, the State Council remains vacant, while in its place is a largely-powerless ‘temporary’ Consultative Assembly that gives advice to the Archduke during this time of extraordinary circumstance. While counter-revolutionary groups such as the Draszeni Dawnguard were dissolved, pro-revolutionary groups were obliged to merge into the National League, which is essentially the only permitted political organisation.
The Republican Coast
While the Autumn Revolution occurred, fleeing members of the State Council initially tried to set up a rival government in the Pearl Coast, a wealthy region of the Archduchy that was under the control of slaveholding Crinian elites (who had earlier migrated to the Archduchy with their human property on the condition that they not spread the practice by owning native peoples — a condition that was quickly ignored by the State Council). While initially successful at defending against repeated attacks from monarchist forces, the imposition of conscription amongst the population had led to popular revolt against their government and, with the assistance of the Dionaean Front, this revolt was joined by the slaves, resulting in a bloody takeover of the region. From this, the Front-Republic of Itnikos, the Republic of Paretia, and the Republic of Kaini Efigas were all declared as bastions of liberty and freedom for the Crinian people who wrested off their chains. Fervent Merouldists, they believe that their cities will stand as everlasting islands of hope, giving comfort to those who share in its dream even as the world ends. Sharing little affinity for the Draszeni state to their west, the Republics guard their liberty, their purity, and their independence against the influence of the foreigner Kerdaghite.
While Republican politics are variable depending on which one is being referred to, they may generally be considered a mix of merchant-republic and Dionaean Front-style stratocracy. While the imagined state of the Republic is a truly egalitarian society, the truth of the matter is that the commercial elite maintain a large degree of influence in its politics, even if the feudal lords have all been sent to the guillotine. Often ‘buying’ their way into key positions into the Republican militaries by organising private forces, the merchant class is overrepresented in the military leadership of the Republic. This also translates into political power, as it is often that the popularity of these generals is so insurmountable that they run virtually unopposed so long as they endorse the same nationalist ideas that characterize the Republics. There are no organized political parties, but strategic alliances between merchant ‘families’ (often there is no blood relation, and it’s more like a mafia brotherhood than anything) who maneuver and negotiate their way into key positions of government.
While nowhere near as radical as their fellow republicans in Stavinia, they often find themselves in agreement regarding the state of the ‘oppressed Crinian-speaking minority’ in Draszen, and the need to maintain pressure on both sides in order to guarantee each others’ survival. In contrast to the Stavinians, the Republics of the Pearl Coast also have close relations with the Dionaean Front, due to its revolutionary origins — Stavinia is one of the major participants of the Northern slave trade.
Out of the three republics, the Front-Republic of Itnikos is by far the most militarized out of them, sharing the border with the Archduchy, and the most powerful, encompassing the largest amount of territory. While the other two republics are decently egalitarian in their political outlook, the Front-Republic is directly modeled after the junta in Dionaea. The Front-Republic also sponsors and shields the remnants of the Draszeni Dawnguard (a militant Merouldist-Seeker group with a notable Crinian nationalist tendency) from the Archduchy, and many of their number serve as ‘honorary generals’ in their armed forces components.
Political Leaders
The Archduke of Draszen is Lucien Verdattyan Iliász[bc] (ruling as Lucien I). The second-born son of Kiral XII, Lucien had previously forfeited his noble title to live a quiet life in the countryside. However, with the assassination of his elder brother, the short-reigning Kiral XIII, and the lack of any other children of the Kiralian line of House Iliász, Lucien was hurriedly elevated to the throne by forces outside his control in order to avoid the throne possibly going to an unknown cadet wing. Aided by his loyal army, the Archduke has ruled only for a few short years, and yet enjoys enormous popularity amongst his subjects as the ‘Peasant-King’, presiding over a booming economy due to a series of well-structured decrees. Although many are quick to praise the Archduke as exceptionally bright, he is also often described as a taciturn man, and most find it difficult to speak to the man as he quietly stares at them with an icy glare. But in the end, few can say that the Archduke hasn’t acted with the best interest of his people at heart, even if his presence is an uncomfortable one. (spoiler: he’s not being mean or aloof or a tsundere or anything like that, it’s just that the dude is incredibly autistic, and his advisors do a pretty good job hiding it by instead attributing his behavior to his ‘serious nature’.)
While Archduke Lucien is largely occupied at the palace in Veraini, most official visits on behalf of the Silver Crown are done by his heir-presumptive, the Grand Princess of Valmara, Alva Sárazh Gyé Theodoros Iliász. The Archduke’s daughter prior to ascending to the throne (from his past relationship with a peasant woman who has now since joined Dutsas), the Grand Princess deals with people in her father’s place.
Aiding the Archduke is the Prime Minister, General Horma Irizima[bd]. A firm believer in Ertsas and Sasken, General Horma comes from a long line of Wanderers who had personally pledged themselves to serve the Draszen Archdukes after escaping slavery in Lestia. Being the first Wanderer to ever reach such a top position in government in the Crinian Basin has made him beloved by some, and hated by many more. Horma also comes from a continuous line of military officers serving as Prime Minister since the success of the Autumn Revolution, and simultaneously is in charge of the Ducal Army. Although at the end of the day Draszen is an absolute monarchy, much of his power is derived by the army’s loyalty, and so Horma wields significant power as the effective head of a military government, with many of his ministers being military men as himself. While he (like the rest of the military establishment) is personally uncomfortable at how long the ‘temporary’ state of exception is taking, he nevertheless remains a staunch opponent of making any large changes — including democratization — that would reverse the gains made by the Autumn Revolution when threats such as foreign invasion or a Dawnguard resurgence still exist. This is not to say that the General is a militarist, as he has consistently tried to avert a costly conflict with the Archduchy’s neighbours, but if it ever comes to a staring contest with ‘the enemy’, Horma will make all measures to make sure that he will not be the first one to blink.
In the Pearl Coast Republics, the Chief-Ministers matter not, for they all follow the whims of the merchant class, and extol the same virtues of Crinian nation and liberty. Instead, the commercial families and the military leaders are the true movers of Republican politics.
As leader of the largest merchant family in the Pearl Coast, Lucistra Xentiroi[be], is a woman whose predecessors had fully exploited the chaos of the Autumn Revolution for their fullest benefit. With branches in every major town in the Republics, the Xentiroi network encompasses a large area of heavily-intensive commerce, eager to shut down any competition, even through cutthroat means. A rare Seeker in a country and family that is overwhelmingly Merouldist, Lucistra often finds herself compelled to take certain positions in order to demonstrate her continued loyalty to the Republic. As such, her influence in Republican politics has resulted in the Pearl Coast being strongly aligned with the Double Union and the Dionaean Front, with her own pockets often subsidizing the Yellow Scarf presence in the region. Despite their mercenary reputation, the Xentirois are also known as impressive patrons of the arts and sciences, and much of their investments have resulted in impressive public works. Compared to her fellow comrades in the Pearl Coast (and her merchant-family), Lucistra’s beliefs in human liberty are also far more consistent, as she has a personal reputation for purchasing slaves abroad (even some Wanderers!), only to free them without any strings attached once they enter the Pearl Coast, with many of them choosing to remain in her employ.
Second only to the Xentirois, are the Ptergios, the other major trading family. While their leadership structure is less-hierarchical than the Xentirois (with Lucistra being the undisputed leader), most agree that the effective leader of the Ptergios is Iskander Tresioulos[bf], Marshal of the Republican Legion. While not a Ptergio himself, Tresioulos has developed a relationship with the trading family, in which he lends his military popularity to help their number get elected, and in exchange, they grant him access to their large funds to supplement his already-impressive forces with independent mercenary formations. While in public he fashions himself as liberty’s greatest defender, when outside the eyes of the public Tresioulos is… rather blunt in his lack of any belief in any of it — whether in Dutsas, in Crinian nation, or in liberty. Whereas Xentiroi represents the idyllic, if flawed, vision of the Republic, Tresioulos, as a man of only ambition and avarice, represents its darker underside. Yet it is perhaps because he is so far removed from the fantasies of the Republican political class that he remains pragmatic enough to consider the idea of making peace with the Archduchy, so that he may use his troops to consolidate power at home, rather than constantly drilling them on the Draszeni border, far away from the political centers of power as he plots to make himself master of the Republic — a king without a crown.
Leading the Draszeni Dawnguard from exile is the charismatic Pathios Cignas[bg]. Even from his middle name being Iav-Merould-Vordisz-Eu-Mareszecs (Yav-Merould-Had-Foretold-the-Weight-of-Your-Sins), it is clearly obvious that the man is a fanatic Meroudlist. And yet, he has continued a doctrine that has continued to enhance the reputation of the Dawnguard in the Archduchy (at least until the Autumn Revolution where they were expelled) — he has kept the ranks open to the Seekers, at the cost of the Double Union’s influence over the movement. While many would criticize brotherhood with those who would condemn the Crinian Tyrants as false-pretenders to Dutsas’s lineage, the threat of Kerdaghite and Wanderer rule over the poor and oppressed majority of Orthodox Dutsasians silence such arguments. While the Dawnguard is no longer the force it was (indeed, even amongst Merouldians in the Archduchy, the Dawnguard can only command a slight majority[bh] of support in the best case scenario), Cignas’s men are dedicated to the cause. While Cignas himself is a ‘Crinianized’ native, he has done little to quiet the voices of those in the movement who advocate for ethnic-Crinian supremacy in parallel to his Dawnguard officially ethnic-neutral mission of Dutsasian Orthodox rule. This is perhaps due to his tendency to avoid making any definite statements that might result in the loss of already-scarce supporters, as he has also done little to clarify whether the aim of his movement is to create a non-Kerdaghite constitutional monarchy in the style of Old Draszen (a position heavily favored by those of higher status), or a theocratic Orthodox Dutsasian republic (itself favored by those of lesser means). Being the central glue to holding all these competing interests together, Cignas is both the figure who makes the Dawnguard far more dangerous to the Archduchy as an organized threat. If he were removed, few can tell how messy the remnants of his movement can get.
Draszen | Economy and Military
Economic Base
While the Old Draszen was notable as an nonindustrialized agricultural breadbasket, extremely progressive economic measures such as the abolition of feudal obligations and an intense campaign of land reform have inadvertently ‘diminished’ this position. While the previous agricultural system was oriented towards the export of these crops, the initial period of administrative chaos after the unilateral declaration of these reforms and the Draszen’s subsequent diplomatic isolation meant that although the condition of the peasantry is immeasurably better than it is in, say, Ervas, the economic viability of agriculture was diminished due to very-constricted access to the international market, whether for exporting their grains or importing foreign technology. Moreover, the new freedoms granted to the freed peasantry had made them incredibly suspicious of any form of centralization or cession of control over their lands, and although there is a very limited form of crop insurance in order to prevent extreme poverty, the government finds itself unable to actually form a national system of centralized agricultural support.
New Draszen emerges from the Autumn Revolution as a quickly-industrializing force, exploiting its forests and ore deposits well. However, due to the precarious state of the Archduchy, much of the industrial output is controlled directly by the government for the purposes of national defense, and although there is little shortage for work in the cities, much of the wealth generated is eaten up by the military who must fight off enemies from all sides. In addition to its militarized industrial output, New Draszen has developed a secondary network of small-scale cooperative workshops, particularly in urban peripheries. These workshops, often independently managed but loosely regulated by the government, see artisans and craftsmen produce non-military goods such as textiles, basic tools, and consumer items for domestic use. While not as lucrative as the state-controlled heavy industries, they provide essential goods for the population and serve as a buffer against economic stagnation in sectors unrelated to defense. Considering that these sights were alien in the Old Draszen, even if wages aren’t that good, at least there is work to be found, and the products they make create definite improvements in the quality of life for Draszeni subjects.
Where the Archduchy suffers a lack of trade, no such thing occurs in the Pearl Coast, where the Republics essentially function due to the wealth generated from trade. occupying what was generally a rich province of the Archduchy, the Republics enjoy a burgeoning bourgeois class enabled by the rapid development of new money, often being seen in beautiful port-cities alongside the Crinian basin. While the economies of the rural areas supporting the cities were largely stagnant, the abolition of slavery amongst the Crinian poor was a positive development in encouraging systems of free exchange by which the mercantile Pearl Coast could grow.
Specializations
Steel, and to a lesser extent coal, is the economic lifeblood of the modernising Draszeni economy. While this is very conducive to maintaining a broad industrial economy to supply small arms and artillery, the Archduchy lacks critical components — such as any energy source more efficient than coal — that makes things such as engines, mechs, and motorized vehicles. Although the Archduchy is perfectly capable of producing them with their scientific base, it simply does not have the resources to produce them at scale, and these resources are strictly rationed for the most efficient uses. By and large, primitive sources of energy such as steam or whale oil are used for industry. One great advantage of Draszen’s friendly relationship with the Wanderer natives of the north is that it is able to trade with them regularly, often importing giant wolves as mounts, deer meat, or the odd strategic resource such as Vardan sunrock. In addition, this relationship also enables them control over the majority of the Saltwater Lakes, which is a source for valuable metals and where the steelfish (essentially a dunkleosteus) is hunted for its scales, which are often used as armor due to its toughness and relative lightness compared to steel.
The Republics are known for their pearls, which are often used in jewelries across the Crinian basin. Anything else they would want for, they could easily buy from their foreign contacts in imports.
Military
Compared to its neighbours on an individual basis, the Draszeni military outmatches them in nearly every metric — in terms of size, technological sophistication, and organization. To illustrate, while the average Ervast conscript is equipped with a basic cloth uniform and a field kit, the equipment of a Draszeni conscript is enhanced by a breastplate, a splatter-mask, a trenching tool, and a helmet, while also having access to other equipment such as hand-binoculars or limited explosives if they are promoted. In this, it is often said that a single Draszeni soldier can defend against three Ervasts — though some will joke that because of the Ervast advantage in a generous wine ration, an Ervast will fight with the spirit of ten Draszeni. By far the greatest weakness of the Silver Crown’s armies, however, is that they face enemies on all sides, and must wield overwhelming force in order to quickly settle any conflict, before they might get dragged into a prolonged multi-front war they may not have the resources to sustain. As most other states deny the Archduchy the necessary specialized resources, mech technology is largely kept ‘in storage’ so as to not deplete the kingdom’s limited stockpiles, and only pulled out in extremely-aggressive, but short-lived, engagements to overwhelm a single enemy. Even light infantry walkers such as those found in Ledzia may only be found in limited use. Instead, large wolves traded from the northern Wanderer tribes are used as cavalry, though their role has been shifted from heavy cavalry to light, with the widespread adoption of firearms. In the icy north where the snow makes it difficult to see, however, the wolf-cavalry are at their best, often ‘gliding’ through the white plains and being able to get in close to devastate isolated groups of infantry with claws, teeth, and lances in continuous hit-and-run attacks. 
Aside from encouraging a general egalitarian ethos in society, the Autumn Revolution also changed the structure of the military. While in the Old Draszen, there was nothing resembling a national force as opposed to a collection of semi-autonomous armies under the nobles’ control, the Ducal Army is the main force found in Draszen. And while previously, military command would be primarily composed of the nobility, it has since shifted into a highly-meritocratic entity, which is another advantage of the Archduchy over their neighbours. While in Ervast, they retain the ways of noble control of the military, and in the Pearl Coast you can simply purchase a commission, any Draszeni volunteer has a fair opportunity to rise through the ranks to become an officer if they prove capable. While technically the government is a constitutional monarchy that is under a period in which the monarch must wield temporary extraordinary powers, the Archduke’s authority is largely backed by the Ducal Army, and the military has a non-insignificant influence in the government.
In addition, the Draszeni Archdukes boast the Order of the Silver Crown, formerly a knightly order during the age of Crinia that was ‘transformed’ into an expansive, secular institution with the Autumn Revolution. During the earliest days of the Revolution, engaged in counter-dissident operations, they became known as the Greencloaks for their attire, and although such an image is what most people imagine they’re like, it’s been some time since they actually donned the cloaks outside of formal occasions, being instead identified by a silver badge that they keep on their person. A secret police, an international intelligence organisation, and a border guard, the Greencloaks answer only to the Archduke, and exist as a heavily-professional organization. They are mainly known for arresting opponents of Ducal rule in Draszen and watching the borders, and very few know of their role in other affairs. In its role as a foreign intelligence group, its agents often travel far away to places of suppressed Kerdaghite and Wanderer activity, and smuggle their enslaved to the Archduchy. In addition, there are a few of their number in larger military units, acting as a form of ‘hidden’ commissar, ensuring the loyalty of the military and reporting any sign of dissent within the ranks.
Due to its status as a sort of pariah state, and its isolation from most international trade, the Archduchy has not seen the need to significantly develop its navy beyond a couple surface ships, although it theoretically has the industrial base to quickly develop one. However, the needs of the land army take precedence due to its immediate threats. Despite its size, the few ironclads that the Archduchy has at its disposal will be easily able to inflict very painful losses against Ervas’s technologically-inferior Azure Fleet, even if it may be able to overwhelm the Archduchy’s naval forces by sheer numbers.
In contrast to the Ducal Army, the Republics of the Pearl Coast maintain an officially-united Republican Legion, but are usually just the three constituent armies in loose coordination with each other. The respective forces wield a significant degree of political power, and is most pronounced in the Front-Republic of Itnikos where it most closely resembles that of their Dionaean masters. Generally, these forces are a collection of mercenary forces paid for by the merchant elite, alongside devoted volunteers in the so-called army of Crinian liberty (whether native sons of the Republics or foreign recruits amongst the integrated Draszeni Dawnguard exiles), with high command being dominated by rich plutocrats who essentially bought their way into their position by either purchasing a commission or bringing along enough mercenaries. Especially the case for the mercenary forces, the Republican Legion also boasts a fairly-decent mech corps, usually imported from Dionaea, which is one of the (few) edges the Legion has against the Archduchy’s larger and more-professional force.
        Draszen | Culture and Society
Faith and Religion
The Archduchy’s commitment to religious tolerance, being ruled by a Kerdaghite monarch, is well-known. While a slight majority of the population are Orthodox Merouldists or Seekers, Wanderers and Kerdaghites also compose major parts of the Archduchy’s religious makeup. Contrary to many other states, where there is a defined state religion, there is no references to such anywhere in the Archduchy’s governing texts (though this will not prevent Dawnguard accusations of the state shoving Kerdaghite corruption down the throats of good-minded Orthodox Dutsasians). While there is no major discrimination under the auspices of the state, and members of all faiths can be found in the upper rungs of society and government, there is a very slight tendency by the government to favor Kerdaghites and Wanderers, as more often than not, they are very much dedicated to maintaining the crown compared to their Orthodox counterparts. The Archduchy’s tolerance has made it a new ‘home’ of sorts for the often-oppressed Kerdaghites and Wanderers, and in some foreign communities, Draszen is referred to in terms akin to a paradise, and many would risk perilous odysseys simply to kiss its soil.
Critically (and confusingly), the Archduchy is a center for ‘original’ Wanderer thought in Crinia that is in contrast to the derivative Crinian Ertsakism (the latter being the result of Wanderer thought being re-interpreted by Crinian elites, and the former representing the traditional line of thought as it appears in the Crinian region). As such, if one was not already predisposed to hate the Archduchy as a bastion for Kerdaghite thought, the protection of the entirely-foreign Wanderer’s Path in Draszen is a constant point of tension in the Archduchy’s relations with its neighbours.
This is in stark contrast to the Pearl Coast Republics to the east, where there is a dominant Merouldist population and a state religion that all officials are supposed to profess belief in, despite a significant amount of the urban population being formerly-wealthy Kerdaghites who would, if they weren’t under effective house arrest, readily flee to the Archduchy the first chance they get. While it is mostly a problem for the Republics to deal with (as they have accepted them into their borders), the issue of the Draszeni Dawnguard is also a problem for the Archduchy where it is banned. The Dawnguard is a militant movement that was founded to establish the dominance of Merouldist-Seeker Orthodoxy with additional Crinian nationalist tendencies. Compared to its Dionaean counterparts, the Dawnguard is more explicitly religious than nationals, a consequence of its opposition to Kerdaghite influence and its ambiguous stance on accepting Orthodox non-Crinians or being a Crinian-only club.
Holidays
I didn’t need to make it this long, but I did not have an entire experience while high just to throw it away.
The most important of holidays in the Archduchy are what is known simply as the Nights, which is a period of three consecutive days that celebrate and observe the foundation of Draszen as an independent state, all centered around the figure of Lysandra. The three nights represent the three most pivotal moments of Lysandra’s life — the day she was ‘born’, the day she ‘died’ and the day she was ‘reborn’. Although Lysandra did indeed exist as a historical figure who founded the Archduchy, the historicity of the legend surrounding her is not as easily-verified. Despite this, it still holds significant prominence to Draszedi of all walks of life, not to mention that the legend is just metal as fuck.
As legend goes, Draszen was founded when a Crinian princess, during the chaos of the Crinian collapse, converted to Kerdaghitism after receiving a vision from Dutsas, and separated her own lands from the Semtiran of Ervas, a wicked demon in man-skin who enjoyed taking the wives of his slain enemies and in humiliating war-captives by marching them naked in parades celebrating his own conquests. Though the name of the princess’s birth has been lost, the princess would be known in history as Lysandra when she changed her name after her spiritual rebirth, renouncing her old one as one who did nothing in the face of the Semtiran’s cruelties. From there, she earned the trust of the native peoples with her endless patience and care, and with their help formed an army to fend off the Ervast invasions.
In the final battle, did Lysandra charge forth alongside the Crinian lords and native kings who had followed her. It was a painful battle, for Lysandra had lost many of her friends, and even while shielded in the thickest of armours, her body was still littered with scars. A sword had slashed her stomach, a spear had left a gaping wound underneath her sword-arm, and yet she still fought, even as those around her pleaded that if she did not exit the battle and seal the wound soon, she would surely perish.
At the final hour of the battle, when defeat appeared certain and when her allies began to waver, did she hear a voice telling her to break off from her guard, and ride through a heavily-wooded area for victory. When they saw their commander charge forward into the trees, where no one knew aught of what may lie in there or beyond it, they did not follow, and watched in bewilderment at the madwoman, thinking to themselves that the stress of defeat and imminent death had driven her to desperation. Riding through the dark woods, Lysandra noticed the flames around her: the demons in the Semtiran’s army had set the forest alight with their bows. And yet, she still charged forward, even as she felt the fire from all directions. When she felt the singe of metal against her cheek, she threw off her helmet, and kept riding.
At the end of the forest, then, she saw atop a pale and fat horse the Semtiran, directing his archers’ fire upon her retreating soldiers. It was then that Lysandra knew what Dutsas guided her to do. She charged forward from the wood, and that is when the Semtiran noticed her and the fact that, against all expectations, she was still alive. In a panic, he yelled at his archers — who were equally as shocked as he — to loose their arrows upon her. An arrow had lodged itself in her thigh. And yet she rode on. Another tore its way through the flesh of her cheek. And yet she rode on. A third had found purchase in her eye. Her charge slowed, and the princess hunched over, slightly, as the Semtiran leaned in forward, wondering if he had finally felled the woman and if he might finally declare victory. And yet once more she raised her sword. And yet once more she hastened her charge.
And yet she rode on.
Fearful for his life, the Semtiran slammed his spurs on his steed to about-face and retreat, while his men looked on in horror at Lysandra's charge. But the Semtiran’s horse was not experienced in these matters, and instead fell, pinning the demon to the ground. He pushed the horse off after some great struggle, but by the time he was on his feet, Lysandra was already seconds away. All he could do was raise a hand in front of him, and open his mouth to speak. But there would be no time to say a word. Even as the wound underneath her sword-arm burned with each movement, Lysandra swung her sword. The first had sliced off his arm. The second, his head.
The archers stared in shock at the woman who should have died, arrows still lodged in her leg and in her eye, hair on fire, and atop an ash-grey steed, regarding her as something from hell. As she continued her attack unto their ranks, they realized their situation, and began a chaotic retreat. When, upon the other side of the battlefield, did the princess’s allies see that the enemy was retreating, they fled no longer, and charged forward to pursue their fleeing foe to exact their righteous vengeance.
Upon seeing that her allies were drawing nearer, Lysandra smiled. And then, in exhaustion, she fell off her horse while her armies surged forth. Encountering her body, did her followers wail and curse themselves for their cowardice, shaken to their core at the length of Lysandra’s sacrifice. Gathering around, they all swore to forever honor the memory of she who was so willing to lay down her life so that they may live free from the Semtiran. As they took off her breastplate, preparing to change her into funerary clothes, they found it hot to the touch. As they burnt their hands in getting it off, they found out that the wounds on Lysandra’s flesh had been cauterized, as was the rest of her body underneath. But what was far more greater, was the fact that as her chest heaved up and down, she was still alive. Through their tears, did her followers thank the heavens and cheer, gingerly carrying their leader to her tent, where she might recover.
The next day, with her lands secured and with the Ervasts in retreat, the lords and kings all approached her, and bent the knee while offering gifts to show her their allegiance to their Queen, begging for forgiveness for not charging alongside her and for doubting her in the moment of greatest struggle. They had offered many things — a warrior of great renown as a suitor, a crown of gold, riches without end and power without limit — but the princess rejected them all. She explained that she did not wish to claim any position from which she may claim any superiority over any of her followers, for she truly believed that, if there ever was a battle like the one before, they would all ride alongside her with the same courage as she.
And so, she told them to save their gifts for one more deserving than she, who would not be Queen. And so, her followers had discarded their gifts and proclaimed that if she would not be Queen, then they shall follow no Queen at all. Wishing to dissuade them not to follow her, Lysandra then asked for the lowliest of the land to approach her. When one was then found — a slave-girl of the Semtiran bearing his child and taken as war-loot — the princess declared her intention to take the girl as her bride, and to name the child as her own. In response, the lords raised their swords and promised to protect the child so that they may one day lead the land as she did. Frustrated at their persistence, she pointed at her broken body, and told them that if she was made a Queen, she would not be able to fight in any more battles nor have the energy to govern the land as a true Queen should. In response, the assembled nobles cried out that they shall do all of this faithfully in her name, for she had already committed the work of ten lifetimes to the land. To this, then, she finally pulled out the silver crown of the Duke of Draszen — a minor native noble who, along with his king, had followed Lysandra to battle, before perishing like so many others. As she placed it atop her head and declared her intention to only be a duke, the kings and lords had all bent the knee and proclaimed her the greatest of dukes, forever pledging their loyalty to her. Unable to convince them otherwise, Lysandra declared that she will be their Queen for one night, before retiring to her quarters as a Duke. That night, they all celebrated the name of the Queen, and thereafter, they celebrated the name of the Archduke, who would forsake a golden crown in favor of one of silver.
The story is celebrated during the Nights in three episodes. The Night of the Maiden deals with the princess’s birth as Lysandra and her renunciation of the Semtiran of Ervas. The Night of the Flames deals with Lysandra’s final battle against the Semtiran and her ‘death’ as she collapsed onto the ground. The Night of the One-Eyed Queen deals with Lysandra’s ‘rebirth through fire’ and the brief period of time she was proclaimed as Queen, before she reigned as Archduke. The nights usually are celebrated with a single re-enactment of the ‘canon’ scenes of the legend. Afterwards, at each day, three-to-five subsequent plays have ‘retellings’ of the story (which can be comedic, tragedic, or anything really) usually ‘inventing’ new scenes into the narrative or recreating it entirely. So long as it is tangentially related to the story, it’s permissible (a favorite for playwrights to use is to write a completely original story in a world long after Lysandra lost the battle). At the end of the night, the audience will judge the overall winner in the contest.
Maps
Maps
Religious Influence Maps
Merouldist (Keeper)
  Seeker
  Kerdaghite
  State Ertsakist
  Cultural Maps
Crinian Cultures
Thurso-Crinian
  Aletic Crinian
  Lydionite Crinian
  Iomatic Crinian
  Dionaic Crinian
  Launine Cultures
Dytic Launine
  Proper Launine
  Crinian Hybrid Cultures
Dionaean
  Erimaean
  Sluicemarcher
  Indigenous Cultures
Lydnha
  Aletnha
  ________________
[1] Though not formally part of one’s name, one’s party affiliation is included by default in writing and address, and can be functionally considered part of someone’s name. Notably, Dionaeans have a “private” and “public” form of their party affiliation: “public” forms refer to the major coalitions/factions, while “private” forms refer to individual sub-factions, salons, cliques, or parties that one identifies. Presiding G
[2] Regional spelling of Yav: after the famous preacher.
[3] Standard Crinian form of Yav. It should be noted that Yav’s legacy is so immense that “Yav(i)”, “Iav(a)”, “Yav(a)”, “Iav(os/ia)”, or other variations, as well as “Maroulak(is/ia)”, “Meroulaz(as/ia)”, “Meroulid(es/a)”, “Meroulaz(as/ia)”, are ubiquitous names across Crinia, acting as the Johns and Marys in the masculine and feminine forms respectively.
Other important Crinian names include Dutsaphor(os/a), Dutsafil(os/ia), Armit(es/(ou/a)), Harmit(es/(ou/a)), Avor(os/a), Avor(akion/akia) from the diminutive, and Havor(os/a).
[a]A quick list of the (peninsular) successor states:
Niatheme: fantasy Scandinavia
Maliabes: fantasy HRE
Gold Horn: fantasy Guelphs and Ghibellines
Koilathalast: fantasy English Civil War
Acoteia: fantasy Scandinavia but with tech imports
Gold Horn: fantasy Knights Hospitallier
Hebrion: fantasy Maghreb
[b](Desolate Erimaeus)
[c](Maliabes)
[d]TLDR: Diadochi with the Russia-HRE (Launinrach) next to the Seleucids (Thursia) next to the ancient Greeks (Aletia) next to tribal Switzerland (Triskelion) next to Russia again but small and revanchist (Lydion) all with a caste system.
[e](i.e. dilution of the blood purity and power of the old Thursian elite due to an Aletian elite being integrated: Thursian state capacity is too low to annex Aletia outright.)
[f](undermining of the caste economic system overall)
[g]was?
[h]A note on military: the Launinrach is an artillery hegemon, with sizable but not extremely modern or high-quality mech forces. Thursia's power is concentrated in heavy mechs. Aletia focuses on light mechs (with imports from Dionaea in the mix), Triskelion has a stronger infantry doctrine and tactically uses light mobile artillery to neutralize light mechs, and Lydion really wants mechs but nobody will sell them any (and their doctrine sucks). Aletia is the undisputed naval hegemon of the region, featuring an industrial-level fleet with imported machinery from the poles.
[i]Toyota Hiluxes being used as fighting platforms by slapping on sheet metal siding, essentially.
[j]Approve wholeheartedly.
[k]mechs: i'm thinking the entire equatorial zone has access to mechs (generally imported) but not Armors or Half-Armors in the way that the poles do: the equatorial zone generally treats mechs as armor like modern tanks rather than as augmented super-infantry
Thursia exemplifies this, with their mechs being essentially heavy tanks and serving no real use other than to smash organized resistance
(i.e. no counterinsurgency capabilities)
[l]Aletia's mech contingent is (again) imported, but a bit lighter (still comparatively heavy, being akin to light tanks more than Polar power-armor, and correspondingly much less advanced.) These forces do great against infantry, but again tend to do better in pitched battles and don't have great occupation capacities.
[m]It's hard to overstate how bad this is for the Crinian economy- already about to enter an economic depression due to the invasion. With Dionaea gone, Iomates scarred, and the Double Union's leaders and key cities stuck, Crinia is already barely hanging on. Sharply increasing tolls or reducing icebreaker service would be the last straw in turning "*maybe* salvageable but unstable" into "fundamentally unprofitable AND unstable".
[n]TLDR: two states, the Double Union (Pope, Pope's oppressed subjects) and the Dionaean Front (Cuba, but with an empire and compromised by the Pope's political pressure) grappling with region-wide Pan-Arab but fundamentalist movement
[o]A Borgia.
[p]Mubarak. The timeline between Nasser and Mubarak is probably similar to the length of Junta rule in the Dionaean Front.
[q]Korean system but for some reason Korea has colonies and the armies of those colonies train and get indoctrinated in Korea and have Korean officers and you know what this metaphor kind of breaks down.
[r]TLDR: a refugee state of escaped slaves under Dionaean influence that encroaches into automated mech carpetbombing lands, and is very much doomed very soon.
[s]_Marked as resolved_
[t]_Re-opened_
[u]The implication is that the Titans and the Titanstrikes are akin to an automated US bombing campaign in Vietnam- carpet bombing, chemical weapons, and targeting signs of activity fairly indiscriminately, but not autonomously expanding attack zones unless activity is detected in the region.
It's left unclear how large the geographical range of Titanstrike, could be, but a taboo on settlement near the region has kept the borders of Desolate Erimaeus stable (for now).
[v]Adenauer, sort of. Supports abolitionist coalition, but not unification: staunchly anti-Iomates, but pragmatically so. Iomates sees Liberationist rhetoric and military autonomy from Dionaea and thinks Iav is a rabid threat.
His Frontierists are in coalition with the EF-Junta in government.
[w]TLDR: The last Avoraschild died here, creating weird Jerusalem issues.
[x]joke term please never use ever
[y]Nicholas I of Russia.
[z]A colonialist with integrity and work ethic is still a colonialist.
[aa]A U.S. general who genuinely thinks **this** foreign intervention will help the populace, unlike all those other foreign regimes.
[ab]Mahmoud Abbas, but with somewhat more power and less corruption.
[ac]"Crinia Proper", like China, was politically and repeatedly united: the advent of a stable global Crinian hegemony destroyed the regional and cultural concept of a united Crinia Proper, and induced the political fragmentation of the modern era.
[ad]Not used natively: used by the Empire to refer to the Vacancy: i'm drawing on "Singwan Compact" as standard pattern.
[ae]Modern Scandinavia with a touch of stereotypes and Crinian pan-nationalism.
[af]see: Gobi, Xinjiang/Tibet as borders of Chinese influence.
Crinia unusually breaking this pattern and becoming an undisputed world hegemon for centuries on end has left an enormous shadow on the region.
[ag]The current culture in Hebrion is a survivor of a cultural (and military) genocide: it incredibly fears the resurgence of a Crinian-style superstate.
[ah]The Empire is Hebrion's worst nightmare, in this respect: a Crinia that never falls, and never will.
[ai]TLDR: (3+1).5 assassination free-for-all in the richest region of Crinia.
[aj]The "Greens, Yellows, Whites, Blues, and Blacks" respectively.
[ak]Used in the real-world sense here: not generally used in-world as part of address, unlike Dionaean party tags.
[al]Jimmy Carter.
[am]Sort of Lyndon Johnson.
[an]Cixi with a touch of Caligula.
[ao]Ideological purist and true party believer meets political reality.
[ap]When people talk about "Wanderer slaves", these are the two relevant routes.
[aq]Dionaean Front goes moderate: about thirty years before junta power solidifies, relations normalize, and junta builds presence in Gold Horn: mechs begin to be imported, but limited by formal military monopoly on force: some slip through, numbers of paramilitary mechs gradually grow and presence of mechs somewhat normalized in paramilitaries over next fifty years: paramilitaries frequently have mechs as trump cards, moving toward mech-inclusive and then mech-centric escalations of conflict over next fifty years.
[ar]_Marked as resolved_
[as]_Re-opened_
oops did not mean to close that
[at]Not used natively: used by the Empire to refer to the Vacancy: i'm drawing on "Singwan Compact" as standard pattern.
[au]"Real" equivalents- particularly, the Spanish silver coins and the pound sterling system- depended primarily on the trade and carrying dominance of the relevant powers. Maliabes "inherited" the currency from Crinia, but not the actual trade capacity: it is simply the quality and prestige of the coins that keeps them in circulation, plus a good deal of Crinian inertia: see Qing use of Mexican dollars, to a degree.
[av]Caused by a rigid historical payment scheme under which mint and tax officials were only permitted to be paid in, own, and handle a newly minted (very large) denomination of coin, to make tracing corruption easier: the thought being that if mint employees tried to embezzle smaller coins, they would be unable to spend them: conversely, attempting to embezzle the legal denomination would be easily traceable due to the limited number of such coins in circulation. This system created a vested interest by the bureaucratic class to limit the size of currency issues, while also creating an artificial minimum to the size of such currency issues.
[aw]Bad intentions, good outcomes: the blatantly self-serving "let's print money!" of the nobility makes for good results in a currency shortage, but has validated a toxic subordination of fiscal policy to state policy: think Song/Yuan currency, or (more accurately) Nationalist Chinese currency.
It's a major regression, and one that would (without the player Empire) not survive the Double Union's impending hegemonic collapse in the same way the independent bank would, sounding the death knell for the post-Crinian system.
[ax]The fact that Astonia was demoted sequentially below Ervas, despite being in the UKs since day one, was on purpose as an intentional haha-go-fuck-yourself to the Astonians by the Letts, knowing that the Astonians can't threaten revolt anymore with the Empire watching.
[ay]TLDR: Two guys here. Eponymic Tyranny of Ervas used to be a colonial government, now is a noble claimant for Crina at-large. Second is a buffer state that's in a puppet of Ervas's main rival.
[az]TLDR: Basically the United Kingdom but the Scots are the snooty rich guys, and the English are the guys spamming FREEDOM in chat.
[ba]It's like a D-Day landing craft but it's on land, and quickly leaping over stuff like a gazelle. It has gunners shooting through slits on the walls. No doors drop down, as the guys inside leap over the walls.
[bb]TLDR: Kerdaghite benevolent absolute monarchy is basically hated by 99% of all the other foreign states.
[bc]https://imgur.com/PPMnHax
[bd]A mix of Matthew Ridgway (for military stuff) and George C. Marshall (for politics stuff).
[be]I have no idea how to describe a good analog to her, save for, 'how a socialist would like to think how a conservative would think of themself'.


She legitimately wants to just keep making money and build libraries, but moment she eases up, she's getting replaced by someone who for certain is not gonna use the money to build libraries.
[bf]Basically any Central American dictator, fused together with the figure of Julius Caesar.
[bg]Basically you get a former Taliban fighter, place him in charge of an orphanage with 30 rowdy kids, and eventually he's not violent, but not because he's mellowed out, but because he's *tired*.
[bh](notably, this is an outlier compared to many other regions: most central Crinian (Dionaea Magna, Crinia Proper) states (outside of the Gold Horn and the Merouldist Union) would only be able to count Dawnguard influence in the 10-30 percentage points of the Merouldist population: on the flip side, central Crinian states are more heavily Merouldist, and hence the Dawnguard's presence in central Crinia by numbers is roughly equal to in Draszen
One total reaction
Alex Bojko reacted with 👍 at 2024-12-25 22:24 pm