Taa Herat
  

Overview
“Traveling through the rift was long and perilous, taking a great toll on my health. The black smoke that became more common as I approached Taa Herat did not help.”
-Arnelius Braash, author of Journey to the Pole


Taa Herat - the land of a thousand shifting rifts. Largely isolated from the equatorial civilizations, the development of this distant oasis differs from its fellows. With the sole year-round pass to their northern neighbors guarded by the Golden Gates and the nomadic peoples of the snowy wastes to the east and west largely distrusted, the people of Taa Herat have largely chosen isolation - all the better to engage in diplomatic games with their neighbors to the southeast. 


The Herati Dominion has taken a hundred names across history, but one truth bears out across time - they are caught in a constant cycle of war and wedding with their southeastern neighbors, the disparate, decentralized Khemet Tai. The Herati have never succeeded in controlling the Khemets, with conquest and union alike falling apart. The reason is simple - the Khemet Tai may suffer from infighting, but they never neglect the Horn, that behemoth fortress straddling their year-round rift. Though the Herati have seen seasonal successes and lightning victories by taking advantage of new paths forged by the shifting rifts, their temporary nature makes them unreliable for supply and reinforcement. The Khemet Tai can rely upon the Horn to hold out until, exhausted and starving, the Herati forces can be safely killed. 


That is in the event of a Herati army successfully navigating the rifts, of course. After Banat Ruus Tagyan disappeared with an entire provisioned army of forty-thousand, including three thousand prized fusiliers, the Herati have been much more cautious. 
Much of the political power in Taa Herat is concentrated in the hands of the compacts, large profit driven organizations that seek to exploit the natural resources of their land to enrich themselves and their peers. There are many compacts in the dominion, and navigating between their intricate web of allegiances, rivalries, and other assorted backroom dealings can prove to be as difficult as politics between nations. It is the compacts that build the colossal ice breaker machines, it is the compacts that grow the nation's grain, and it is the compacts that power the nation's economy. There is a lot of variance between the compacts and what they do, some are family run, others publicly owned, some give you an extra day off every few months, others demand nothing but blind obedience, but in the end they all want the same thing. Gold.
Notable Cities
“The city was both wondrous and horrifying, great buildings of marble and glass made up its core, and I was not wanting for anything when staying there. The edges however, are filled with foundries that endlessly spew smoke and shroud the city in an eternal smog.”
-Arnelius Braash, author of Journey to the Pole


Ur-Qaar


In the northern portion of Herati Dominion lies its capital and most prestigious city, Ur-Qaar. It is the city of industry, emblematic of the endless march of progress that drives the people of Taa Herat to delve beneath the ice and push back against the machinations of nature. Many large compacts have their headquarters here, located within the glamorous and wealthy central part of the city. Those in the center try to paint themselves as more civilized than those who live on the edge, but sometimes an executive turns up dead in an alley shot in the back of the head. Before the metropolitan police have even opened the case, they are given a generous ‘donation’ by one of the compacts, in return for them to look the other way, of course.


The edges of the city are made up of lower class housing and large industrial factories, sometimes next to each other. It is no secret that those who live at the edge have shorter lifespans, either being killed in an accident, or dying after a lifetime of inhaling the smoke spewed out by the factories. Still, the compacts are the only *legal* employment one can get, and they can sometimes inspire loyalty in those at the bottom with promises of fancy homes in Midtown, or even at the center. There are numerous stories of workers for one compact getting riled up, and attacking the factory of a rival, hoping that their overloads will reward their loyalty by improving their station. So far, nothing like that has happened.


Ur-Zaysh
In ancient days, Ur-Zaysh used to be the equal to Ur-Qaar, with kings using this city as their summer capital due to its comparatively cooler weather. Now, however, Ur-Zaysh is a city in decline as Ur-Qaar continues its growth politically, economically, and industrially. Now, while the city boasts ancient palaces and great monuments, it is more known for its poverty and violence as these once great places crumble and fall into disrepair. Decades of corrupt rule by compact associated kleptocrats have hollowed out the city's institutions, leaving its railcars to rot in their sheds, its fire brigades to shut down, and its hospitals to turn away patients due to lack of beds. Yet still, after all that, the compacts left the city for Ur-Qaar, taking their factories and resources with them, leaving the city with nothing but ancient monuments and half built infrastructure. Now, whatever's left is fought over by bickering politicians who only wish to improve their own standing, and the street gangs that frighten whoever's left into paying protection money.


Ur-Khul
Ur-Khal is the center of worship for the Eternal Flame, located in the heart of the Herati Dominion. The city has little in the way of natural resources or fertile land, but is fought over all the same by the compacts due to its significance. Not even the faith in the Eternal Flame is free from the influence of these compacts, as many use its priests as mouthpieces for its propaganda, and its ceremonies to build good public relations. Some have even begun a new heresy, claiming that The Eternal Flame actually refers to the flames of industry, and that to truly be faithful, one must spend their time toiling on an assembly line for a pittance. However, there are some in Ur-Khal who reject this notion, and the city is a hotbed for anti-compact sentiment as many of the faithful rally to The Flame as a symbol of a world free of compact influence. 


Ur-Sor
On the far northern end of Taa Herat lies Ur-Sor, the newest city in the region. It was built, and is entirely controlled by one compact, Dreadnought Steel. The city is located right next to the glacier, and Dreadnought uses it as a staging ground as it bores beneath the Iotrus Banum ice shelf with its Icebreaker Ironclads, gigantic machines on treads built for the sole purpose of cutting through the ice in search of new ore deposits. The workers on the ground however have the unenviable task of venturing into the newly bored ice caves to mine out iron ore. It is a dangerous job, as the newly formed caves are unstable and can collapse at any moment. For their hard work, the workers at Ur-Sor are paid in scrip that is only accepted at company affiliated stores. This has caused a simmering resentment to brew, before it came to a head as workers turned their machines on the Dreadnought Steel enforcers, starting an open rebellion that would only escalate as the workers demanded Dreadnought leave the city entirely. Now the rebellion threatens to spill outside the bounds of the city as workers from across the region are taking notice


Outline:
1. Taa Herat follows the Eternal Flame, maintaining it in the heart of their territory. They harvest petrified wood left behind by the shifting chasms linking habitable zones, as this is considered the most holy wood for the flame. Eternist faithful are expected to burn some portion of their body upon becoming an adult. Some sects have adapted to modernity by burning coal in their braziers, sparking scorn.
2. Herati people are wealthier than the Khemeti due to greater access to goods from the central belt
3. Khemet Tai follows a less codified religion without centralized temples. One of the common tenets followed by most is the practice of masking; children are given simple, unadorned masks to wear in public, only taking it off in the presence of family. Upon achieving a feat worthy of adulthood, they are faced with a choice. Either they make a mask bearing their feat which will fit them for the rest of their lives, or they may go unmasked.
4. Oftentimes Khemet Tai merchants, politicians, and other public-facing members of society opt against a mask. Exceptions are rare; successful exceptions even rarer.
5. Origins of the Khemet Tai uncertain and ambiguous. Some theories hold that it was originally a leper colony, which explains the emphasis on masking.
6. Taa Herat has frosty relations with the old nomads; they were once conquered by them during a moment of great instability
7. Inseparability of the two major cultures is enforced by the intermingling over the years; Herati majority in the northwest, Khemet majority in the southeast, but major minorities of both in the opposite area
8. Khemet Tai is very similar to Taa Herat in terms of tech, but is very decentralized with workers coops being the most prominent form of organization. However, the current leader of Khemet Tai seeks to centralize the nation under his rule.